



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **ALUMNI/AE MEETS SHOWCASE YOUNG AND OLD IN ANNUAL
            COMPETITION**
    
    
      
    
    September 2, 2006
    
    
      
    
    The remnants of Hurricane Ernesto held off long enough to allow
        for excellent running conditions at the annual Alumni/ae
        cross country meets    at Franklin Park.  The runners, both current and "Has Been" (a term
        affectionately given to the ex-MIT runners) performed extremely well in the
        first meet of the season.
    
    
      
    
    The first meet was the women's alumnae meet.  The alumnae
        were not able to gather a full team to participate, but those who did, ran
        very well.  Martha Buckley led the way for the alumnae as she finished
        eighth in 20:37.  Betsy Eames, the most recent alum finished 10th in
        20:53. Jen Gaugler completed the course in 15th, running 23:12 and Fran
        Weld finished in 16th, running 23:49.  Meri Silberstein and Alisa Lehman
        showed up for support.
    
    
      
    
    The varsity displayed their young talent as two freshmen took
        the top two spots.  Maria Monks held a five second lead at two miles
        over Jacqui Wentz but when Monks made a wrong turn, Wentz took advantage
        and the victory, 19:43 to 19:57.  Despite four top runners not running
        due to injuries or minor pains that may turn into injuries, the varsity took
        the next five places as well.  The best part was they were all within
        12 seconds of each other, giving the top seven a delta of :37. Third
        through seventh runners were Rachel Niehuus (20:08), a new-comer to cross
        country, Alisha Schor (20:10), Adrienne Bolger (20:10), Elizabeth Finn (20:11)
        and Jennifer Doyle (20:20).
    
    
      
    
    Next on the course was the men's race.  While the varsity
        squad had plenty of young talent on display with very adequate summer mileage,
        the "Has-Beens"  had equal or better talent, more mileage and more
        experience.  Ben Schmeckpeper, Sean Nolan and Fivos Constantinou took
        off across the field at the start and never saw a varsity runner again (unless
        they turned around to look back in the distance).
    
    
      
    
    Nolan ran a well paced race and overtook a slightly fatiguing
        Schmeckpeper to win easily in 25:25.  Constantinou also took advantage
        of Schmeck's fatigue, claiming second place in 25:40.  Scmeck finished
        in 25:48 for third and the guaranteed victory due to the 1-2-3 sweep.  Jake
        Ruzevick made a gallant effort at breaking up the threesome but due to some
        stomach problems he had to settle for fourth with a 25:56.  Kevin Brulois
        rallied late in the race after a dismal second and third mile to finish fifth
        in 26:17.  Chris Bruce ran a great race, coming back after missing all
        of 2005 with an injury, finishing sixth in 26:30.
    
    
      
    
    Eric Khatchadourian ran behind the varsity's second group early
        in the race then moved up to pass the varsity's top freshman in the final
        mile, finishing seventh in 26:42.  Brandon Pung, the aforementioned
        freshman, ran a strong race but faded a bit in the final stages, finishing
        eighth in 26:46.  Another freshman, Jack Bourbonnais, ran 26:55 to finish
        as the varsity's fifth man.  Craig Wildman had to drop out of the race
        due to a pulled hamstring, but ageless Terry McNatt made up for it with a
        strong 27:36 at age 41 as the fifth man for the alumni, giving them the 25
        to 32 victory.
    
    
      
    
    Other alumni racing were Bob Collins (28:30) at age 45, Eugene
        Tung (28:46) at age 40, Mark Feldmeier (31:12) at age 32, Sumner Brown a
        truly amazing 31:56 at age 62 and James Williams (32:30) at age 38. Helping
        to cheer their team were Yuval Mazor and Chuck Van Buren. 
    
    
      
    
    The varsity were too spread out among the top four, but four
        through eight finished within 16 seconds of each other.  Both squads
        will be home next Saturday to defend the Engineer's Cup against RPI and WPI.  The
        women race at 1:00 and the men at 1:45.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **Men's and Women's Teams Run Over
        Competition in Engineer's Cup**
    
    
      
    
    September 9, 2006 
    
    
      
    
    After three weeks of unseasonably cool weather, the heat returned
        with a vengence today in the Engineer's Cup.  The 85 degree temperatures
        affected everyone's performances but not the inevitable outcome of MIT finishing
        on top of their fellow engineers from RPI and WPI.  In the men's race,
        the men from Cambridge nearly swept their competition, finishing 1-2-3-4-7
        for a 17 point victory over 54 for RPI and 71 for WPI for their 10th consecutive
        victory in this meet.
    
    
      
    
    MIT went out hard for the first mile and took most of the competition
        with them.  By mile two there were only a few remaining competitors,
        four from RPI and one from WPI to break up MIT's top 12 runners.  Jake
        Ruzevick and Kevin Brulois had taken control of the lead by mile two.  The
        third mile saw Ruzevick pull away from Brulois and the Alex White from WPI
        move up to third.  One of the RPI runners fell back leaving three betwenn
        MIT's top 15.  The trend continued in the fourth mile.  Brandon
        Pung and Joe Roy-Mayhew passed White to give MIT their 1-2-3-4 advantage
        and Trevor Rundell seemed to be closing in on fifth.
    
    
      
    
    At the finish it was obvious the heat had taken its toll with
        times running 30 to 60 seconds slower than the week before when temperatures
        were 20 degrees lower.  Ruzevick finished first in 26:30.  MIT's
        delta for 1-5 was :57 and 1-7 was 1:10.  The harriers from MIT need
        to improve at handling the heat as well as a fast early pace if they are
        going to fair well against the better teams from New England.
    
    
      
    
    The women seemed to handle the heat much better than their
        male counterparts.  The predicted close finish among the three teams
        never materialized as MIT quite literally ran away with an easy victory despite
        a few top runners being out with sickness and injury.  Once the dust
        had settled, MIT finished with 21 points to 46 for RPI and 72 for WPI.
    
    
      
    
    At the mile mark, Maria Monks and Jacqui Wentz from MIT were
        locked in a battle with Cathy Molloy and Lauren Carter from RPI.  A
        WPI runner was a little behind and then three more RPI runners and one WPI
        runner were mixed in and just ahead of a group of five MIT runners.  WPI
        appeared out of contention but the anticipated battle between RPI and MIT
        was taking shape.
    
    
      
    
    Monks put the hammer down in the second mile and totally opened
        up the race.  Molloy was able to stay about 10 seconds back at the two
        mile mark with Wentz just five seconds behind.  The biggest change was
        the fact that three more MIT runners (Hana Adaniya, Alisha Schor and Jennifer
        Doyle) had passed all other runners to give MIT a commanding lead.
    
    
      
    
    In the final mile Carter of RPI had passed two MIT runners
        to get back to fifth place.  Doyle had moved up to fourth in 19:55 for
        her first sub-20:00 performance.  Adrienne Bolger and Elizabeth Finn
        joined Adaniya and Schor to finish 6-7-8-9, putting seven ahead of RPI's
        third runner and sweeping WPI.
    
    
      
    
    Next week, MIT travels to Twinbrook cross country course in
        Cumberland, Maine to race host Bates, Keene State and Southern Maine.   
    
    
      
    
     
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **MIT MEN SWEEP FIELD AT MT. HOLYOKE
        INVITATIONAL**
    
    
      
    
    September 30, 2006
    
    
      
    
    MIT rested seven of their top eight runners in the men's race
        of the Mt. Holyoke Invitational but the results did not indicate it as Kevin
        Brulois led the sub-varsity to a sweep of the top 10 places with his 26:43
        winning performance.  Tech's
        depth was clear as the delta for the 1-10 spread was a mere 1:17.  Running
        to second place was Babson College with 61 points, followed closely by Clark
        University with 65 points.  Framingham State brought up the rear with
        115 points.
    
    
      
    
    The course will be the site of the NEWMAC Conference Championship
        so MIT took advantage of the opportunity to race on the course.  A fairly
        flat course, the many turns slow it down significantly.
    
    
      
    
    Running season bests in the meet were Matt Bieniosek (28:49),
        Yermie Cohen (27:19) and Kevin DiGenova (27:58).  Running personal bests
        were Ethan Huwe (28:28), Peter Mulligan (29:23), Archi Stuk (27:31) and Sandy
        Spicer who ran a 1:19 personal best.
    
    
      
    
    The women's team also rested their top seven, but with less
        depth and stiffer competition than the men, they were forced to settle for
        a tie for second with Mt. Holyoke College with 65 points.  Winning the
        meet with 23 points was Wellesley College led by freshman Clare Egan running
        19:29 for first place.  
    
    
      
    
    MIT's
        number eight runner, Adrienne Bolger, ran an impressive 19:57 personal best,
        good for third place overall.  Racing for the first time this season
        were Erika Erickson (20:24) and Jessie Thompson (20:59).  Both are coming
        back from early season injuries and hope to be varsity contributors later
        in the season.  Liz Labuz place third for the Engineers with a time
        of 20:57.  Becky Idell ran a personal best of 21:22 to finish sixth
      for Tech. 
    
    
      
    
    Next Saturday MIT heads back to Franklin Park for the NEICAAA
        (All New England) Championship.  The women's sub-varsity race at noon
        is followed by the varsity race at 12:30.  The men's varsity race follows
        the women's races at 1:00 and the schedule is concluded with the men's sub-varsity
        race at 1:45.  This
        race will be a good mid-season indication as to how MIT stacks up against
        the top Division III teams in the region.   
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **Monks and Ruzevick Find Running
        Difficult in the Mud**
    
    
      
    
    November 18, 2006
    
    
      
    
    The conditions on the course at Voice of America Park were
        the worst any coach could remember for an NCAA Division
        III Championship,
        easily surpassing the 1997 meet hosted by MIT at Franklin Park and earlier
        meets hosted by Fredonia State in the snow and Washington University of St.
        Louis in the mud.  The mud was on every inch of the course and could
        suck the shoe off a runner's foot at any point.  Many of the top ranked
        teams for the men and women were unable to deal with the conditions while
        some seemed to handle the race well, albeit much slower than normal.
    
    
      
    
    For MIT runners, freshman Maria Monks and sophomore Jake Ruzevick,
        both running at nationals for the first time, the going was difficult but
        for different reasons.  For Monks, her poor luck continued to plague
        her in her debut season as someone stepped on her heel in the first 100 meters
        and pulled her shoe off.  Not being certain if the timing chip in her
        shoe laces were necessary to have an official finish, Monks stopped to go
        back and get the shoe, putting her in last place and negating her nice start.  
    
    
      
    
    Monks worked her way up through the pack methodically with
        shoe in hand.  With
        the exception of the rocky roads she had to occasionally cross, Monks ran
        quite well.  By the two mile mark she was up to 130th position and eventually
        finished in 98th place with a time of 24:54 for the 6K course, 2:23 behind
        the winner, Sarah Zerzan from Willamette College. 
    
    
      
    
    Ruzevick got out to a desirable spot in the first mile but
        was simply unable to hold on to that position.  The mud sapped the speed
        and strength from his legs, making finishing the race challenge enough.  By
        the two mile mark, Ruzevick had fallen to 98th place.  By four miles
        he was in 148th place and eventually finished in 151st place of the 280 runners
        in the race with a time of 29:00, 2:29 behind winner, Macharia Yuot of Widener
        College. 
    
    
      
    
    This ends the 2006 season but being so early in their college
        careers, both Ruzevick and Monks should improve significantly in future NCAA
        Championships.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **RUZEVICK AND MONKS QUALIFY FOR
        NCAA DIVISION III CHAMPIONSHIP**
    
    
      
    
    November 11, 2006
    
    
      
    
    Near perfect conditions welcomed the men's and women's teams
        to the New England Division III Championship / NCAA Division III Regional
        Qualifier.  MIT's men's team, seeded seventh going into the race was
        hoping for better results but were not able to out perform their seed.  Jake
        Ruzevick, the number one runner on the team all season, was determined to
        qualify for nationals individually and despite not feeling his best after
        two miles he hung on for 11th place overall, good enough to extend his season
        another week and earn him a trip to Wilmington, Ohio.
    
    
      
    
    The team, led by Ruzevick set itself up in good position and
        moved to a point where they were competing for one of the top four spots,
        which would have earned them a trip to nationals as a team had they held
        on.  However, from that point the rolling hills seemed to take their
        toll on the Engineer's legs.  Joe Roy-Mayhew was the next highest finisher
        for MIT in 39th place after being as high as the mid 20s around two miles
        into the race.  Johannes
        Schneider finished very well for a freshmen, ending up in 46th position,
        approximately his highest position at any point in the race.  Kevin
        Brulois, the Engineers highest finisher last year, was up to 40th place at
        one point but faded slightly to finish in 53rd place.  Trevor Rundell,
        running from the back as he did last year when he finished 40th, made it
        up to as high as 47th place but also faded falling back to 57th place to
        round out the scoring for MIT at 206 points for seventh place. 
    
    
      
    
    The women, ranked as high as 19th in the country for Division
        III this season, entered the race decimated by injuries.  Missing their
        number two, four, five and six runners and with number one, Maria Monks nursing
        an injured back, the Engineers took to the starting line with the hope of
        running a solid race and beating as many teams as possible. 
    
    
      
    
    Monks shook off the pain and put herself in position to contend
        for an individual spot to nationals.  Having misplaced her spikes and
        having to run in cross country nubs, she lost ground on the hills, eventually
        ending up in 23rd place.  When the five qualifying teams were taken
        out of the mix Monks was the sixth of seven individuals making the trip to
        Ohio next week.
    
    
      
    
    Hana Adaniya, running her final cross country race, made it
        up to as high as 23rd place  but was unable to hold onto her position on
        this day, falling back to 58th place.  Adrienne Bolger made her way
        up into the mid 70s and stayed there throughout the remainder of the race,
        finishing in  76th place.  Jessie Thompson and Alisha Schor got
        to Bolger early on in the race but faded a bit back 101st and 102nd places
        respectively.  The women finished with 360 points to finish 14th out
        of 48 schools.  This was certainly a disappointing end to a season marked
        by amazing performances but with the top four returning runners being either
        freshmen or sophomores good things are on the horizon.
    
    
      
    
    Ruzevick and Monks will represent MIT at the NCAA Division
        III Championship at Voice of America Park in West Chester, Ohio, hosted by
        Wilmington College on Saturday, November 18 at 11:00 and 12:00 respectively.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **Men and Women Race to High Finishes
        at All New England Championship**
    
    
      
    
    October 7, 2006
    
    
      
    
    With 65 degree temperatures and a dry course the conditions
        were the best of the season so far for running fast times and both men's
        and women's teams from MIT took advantage at the NEICAAA
        Cross Country Championship.  The
        men placed 16th of 45 teams with  424 points in this championship comprising
        all schools from Divisions I, II and III in the New England region and fourth
        among Division III colleges.  The
        women, with their best race in the history of this event and arguably best
        ever in any race, tied for 14th out of 46 teams with 471 points.  The
        lady harriers finished seventh among the Division III teams but the New England
        region is undoubtedly the strongest in the nation in Division III.
    
    
      
    
    The men got out well on the dusty course, settling in the middle
        of the pack as they worked their way into the first turn.  Jake Ruzevick
        established his position among the leaders as he came through the first mile
        within the top 40 runners.  Kevin Brulois went out close behind Ruzevick
        and the pack of Joe Roy-Mayhew, Johannes Schneider, Brandon Pung, Trevor
        Rundell and Chris Bruce were running together and moving up in the field.
    
    
      
    
    By mile two Ruzevick was in good posistion in 35th position
        and looking strong.  Brulois, Roy-Mayhew, Schneider and Pung were looking
        good and moving up well.  Miles three and four were more of the same
        as Ruzevick moved into the top 25, Brulois looked as though he were holding
        on but doing a good job of it and Roy-Mayhew continuing to move up well.  Freshmen
        Schneider and Pung worked well together, coming through four miles in 21:12.
    
    
      
    
    In the final mile Ruzevick was not able to go with those who
        had started less aggressively but was able to hold onto 23rd place in a huge
        personal best of 25:19. Ruzevick finished as the fifth overall Division
        III runner, a position that bodes well for the national championships in
        six weeks.  Brulois held on, finishing in 64th for a PR of 25:45 and
        Roy-Mayhew completed the course in 87th place running under 26:00 for the
        first time, finishing in 25:56.  Schneider closed to 128th place in
        26:14 and Pung ran 26:18 to finish in 133rd position.  Both ran personal
        bests.
    
    
      
    
    In the sub-varsity race, freshman Jack Bourbonnais ran 26:17,
        finishing 13th and Yermie Cohen ran 26:37 showing the depth of the Engineers.
    
    
      
    
    The women took to the course before the men and appeared ready
        to show the region they deserved a little respect.  Running without
        number two runner, Jacqui Wentz and with number three runner, Elizabeth Finn,
        having a bout with a stomach flu, the remaining runners showed little doubt
        that they could accomplish the task.
    
    
      
    
    Unfortunately for the varsity team, their starting box was
        on the far left of an unsurveyed line, putting them at a severe disadvantage
        to hit the first turn in the desired position.  Coach Halston Taylor
        neglected to inform them of this problem, trusting they would know to get
        out and not wanting to cause them to get out too fast, an ill advised decision
        that may have hurt the team's outcome.
    
    
      
    
    At the start, the women got out too slowly, not being able
        to see the teams on the other side of the wedge.  Going into the first
        turn MIT was very near the back of the pack, realizing too late they needed
        to move.  Maria Monks came to the realization a little sooner and made
        a big move going across the field and all through the first mile.  The
        rest of the MIT runners expended a lot of energy moving up to the desired
        position by mile one but their aggressiveness served them well.
    
    
      
    
    Monks was in 14th place at the mile mark, a little ahead of
        plan. Hana Adaniya and Jennifer Doyle worked together well and moved
        up to the back of the top third of the 300+ field by the end of the first
        mile.  Following close behind were Rachel Niehuus, Adrienne Bolger and
        Alisha Schor.  By mile two Monks was feeling the first mile, falling
        back to 24th place.  The others each passed about 20 runners in that
        mile and were continuing to move up.  The final mile saw Monks, still
        running a great race, continue to fall back and the rest of the varsity move
        up a few more places.  Adaniya ran an exceptional race, running under
        19:00 for the first time, clocking 18:58 in 69th place.  Monks placed
        45th in what had to be a painful finish but a fast one in 18:35.  Doyle,
        with Adaniya shortly after the two mile mark, hit the wall, losing 39 places
        in the final mile but still running a personal best of 19:19.  Niehuus
        and Bolger also ran personal bests of 19:24 and 19:33, finishing in 115th
        and 137th respectively.  Schor rounded out the varsity with an excellent
        time of 19:39.
    
    
      
    
    Making a comeback from early season injury, Erika Erickson
        placed 27th in the sub-varsity race in a time of 19:37, making her a candidate
        for a future varsity position.
    
    
      
    
    Next Saturday, both teams travel to Williamstown to compete
        in the Plansky Invitational.  Both teams will race at shorter distances
        to work on speed a little bit and take a break from the monotony of the 8K
        and 5K distances.  The men will race at 5K and the women at 4K.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **MEN RUN AWAY WITH NINTH CONSECUTIVE
        NEWMAC CHAMPIONSHIP**
    
    
      
    
    October 28, 2006
    
    
      
    
    The rain came down relentlessly, the wind blew constantly with
        gusts up to 30 mph and the course was mostly underwater, and where it wasn't
        it was deep with mud.  Other than slower times, there was no indication
        that any of this affected the MIT men's cross country team. Executing
        their plan to perfection, the harriers claimed six of the top ten spots in
        winning their ninth consecutive NEWMAC Championship at Mt. Holyoke College's
        home course with 26 points to runner-up Coast Guard's 63 points.
    
    
      
    
    Jake Ruzevick led the Engineers with his second place performance
        in 27:02.  Joe Roy-Mayhew and Johannes Schneider finished fourth and
        fifth respectively with times of 27:19 and 27:22.  Schneider also claimed
        Rookie of the Year honors for finishing as the top freshman.  Rounding
        out the scoring for Tech were Kevin Brulois (27:26) and Jack Bourbonnais
        (27:41) finishing seventh and eighth respectively.  Also earning All
        NEWMAC honors were Trevor Rundell in 10th, Chris Bruce in 12th and Chris
        Wong finishing 14th.  MIT's top five delta of :39 in such poor conditions
        was a superb effort and showed they are ready for the NCAA regional qualifiers
        being held at Springfield College in two weeks.
    
    
      
    
    Ruzevick is seeking to qualify individually for the NCAA Championship
        and the team is looking to claim one of the two automatic positions to come
        out of the New England region. 
    
    
      
    
    The women were favored to win, but running without injured
        number two runner, Jacqui Wentz and number five runner, Rachel Niehuus combined
        with competing but ailing runners, Jennifer Doyle (number three) and Elizabeth
        Finn (number four), lessened the favorites role considerably.  Nevertheless,
        a normal racing performance would have provided a much closer race than what
        transpired as MIT runners got off the line in poor position, did not move
        up much in the first mile and only three runners passed more than three people
        from mile one to the finish of the 5K race. 
    
    
      
    
    The engineers finished in fourth place with 82 points to the
        victorious Coast Guard team with 54 points, runner-up Wellesley with 66 points
        and third place Smith College with 77 points.
    
    
      
    
    Led by freshman sensation, Maria Monks, who took the lead at
         a mile and a half, expanded that lead to five seconds over the next mile
        and then fell down the final muddy hill when she ran too conservatively on
        the slippery surface, settling for fifth place in 20:08.  Hana Adaniya
        ran a solid race, passing seven runners in the final two miles to finish
        eighth in 20:22.  Finn and Doyle lost a little ground in the final two
        miles finishing 20th and 24th respectively.  Closing out the scoring
        was Erika Erickson in 25th, passing 12 runners in the final two miles for
        her best paced race of the season.
    
    
      
    
    When Monks fell on the final hill she injured her back.  Nevertheless
        the talented freshman hopes to qualify individually for the NCAA Championship.  The
        team has an outside chance at one of the possible five automatic and at-large
        berths awarded to the region but they will need to be better prepared in
        their own minds as well as by their coach, Halston Taylor.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **Tech Runners Experience Mixed
        Results at Plansky Invitational**
    
    
      
    
    October 14, 2006
    
    
      
    
    The MIT men's and women's cross country teams traveled to Williams
        College to run in the Plansky Invitational, hosted on the nearby Mt. Greylock
        High School course.  The race distances were intentionally short; 4K
        for the women and 6K for the men.  As teams approach the end of the
        season, an opportunity to get out of the rut of running the same distances
        week after week and race a slightly faster pace is an attractive one.
    
    
      
    
    With just having run a major race the week before and with
        the conference championship two weeks away, the team welcomed the shorter
        distance and the opportunity to run against powerhouses, Williams and Tufts
        on the women's side and Williams on the men's side.  Both men's and
        women's teams finished third and for different reasons look forward to the
        conference championship in two weeks at Mt. Holyoke College. 
    
    
      
    
    The women had a choice of running a 5K or 4K race.  Williams
        and Tufts split up their teams but running more of their better runners in
        the 4K. MIT, running without their freshmen, number one and two runners,
        Maria Monks and Jacqui Wentz.  The remaining varsity runners accepted
        the challenge of taking up the slack and performed very well.  Elizabeth
        Finn, still getting in top form after a very low mileage summer, hung behind
        MIT lead runners, Jennifer Doyle and Hana Adaniya until the end when she
        out sprinted both to the finish line to finish seventh with a fine time of
        15:15.  Doyle
        was right behind at 15:15.  Adaniya, bothered by stomach problems, was unable
        to finish as strong, running 15:22, but finishing ninth.  Rachel Niehuus
        continued to race well, finishing tenth in 15:23. Alisha Schor closed out
        the scoring with a 19th place finish in 15:48.
    
    
      
    
    At the conference championship MIT intends on being at full
        strength and will need to do so to upset last year's champion, Wellesley
        College.  Also looking very good are last year's second place team,
        Wheaton College as well as much improved Coast Guard Academy.
    
    
      
    
    The men had only one choice, the 6K race.  Finishing only
        four points behind Williams last week in the New England Championships, it
        was logical to think the Engineers could run with the Ephs.  Williams
        College, last week running without Stephen Wills, was at full strength and
        had a message to deliver.  MIT runners, with the exception of star sophomore,
        Jake Ruzevick, never seemed in contention.  Ruzevick suffered a quadriceps
        strain halfway through the race and just tried to hang on without further
        damage.  The rest of the varsity runners never challenged the Williams
        leaders, letting them go at the start.  The message sent by Williams
        was received loud and clear, they are still the team to go through if you
        want to win the New England Division III Championship in four weeks.
    
    
      
    
    For the immediate future, MIT will attempt to remain the only
        team to ever win the NEWMAC, going for their ninth consecutive title.  The
        perennial challenger to the crown remains the Coast Guard Academy.  Tech
        knows it must compete much better in two weeks if they hope to keep the upset
        minded Coast Guard team at bay.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **WOMEN HARRIERS RACE TO FOURTH
        PLACE FINISH AT NATIONAL PREVIEW**
    
    
      
    
    September 22, 2006
    
    
      
    
    The weather did everything possible to make what should have
        been a very fast course, a very average one at the National Preview Championship
        hosted by Wilmington College at Voice of America Park in Mason, Ohio.  The
        two inches of rain that fell the night before and morning of the championship
        combined with the winds caused many runners to struggle and run perhaps a
        minute slower than they would have on a packed, dry course.
    
    
      
    
    A group that did not seem to be too affected were the MIT women.  Placing
        fourth among 15 teams, five of which were ranked nationally, the women harriers
        took down #19 Allegheny and #22 Wheaton (IL) while losing to #1 Geneseo,
        #2 Washington University of St. Louis and narrowly to #33 Depauw.
    
    
      
    
    Leading the way for the Engineers was freshman Maria Monks.  Monks
        went with the lead pack at the beginning, following the two lead Geneseo
        runners, Elizabeth Montgomery and Shannon Griggs.  At the two mile mark
        of the 6K course, Monks had begun to pull away from the chase group, eventually
        leading them to the finish line by five seconds for third place in 22:10.
    
    
      
    
    Despite having a cold that kept her unsure as to whether she
        would be able to run or not until she had warmed up, fellow freshman Jacqui
        Wentz moved up through the pack after mile one to eventually garner 19th
        place with a remarkable race.
    
    
      
    
    MIT's pack consisting of Elizabeth Finn, Jennifer Doyle and
        Hana Adaniya placed 27th, 29th and 30th in the 181 runner field, moved up
        well throughout the last two and three quarter miles, finishing only seven
        seconds apart.  Close
        behind was Rachel Niehuus (37th) and Alisha Schor (60th).   
    
    
      
    
    Running at this level is a first for MIT women's cross country
        and the team hopes it is only a hint of things to come.
    
    
      
    
    The men's contingent did not have quite as good a result.  Getting
        out in the back of the pack and unable to move up on the soft, wet course,
        the Engineers finished 11th out of 16 teams for their worst outing of the
        young season.  Despite number two man, Kevin Brulois not racing due
        to academic conflicts, the harriers expected to do much better.
    
    
      
    
    Jake Ruzevick led MIT with a 37th place finish in 26:33 on
        the 8K course.  Although Tech had a tight delta of 33 seconds through
        four runners, the next man was 22 places back.  Joe Roy-Mayhew ran second
        for MIT for the first time with a 26:52 for 51st place.  Close behind
        was Trevor Rundell in 57th, running 26:58.  Freshman Johannes Schneider
        ran a solid race, finishing 69th in 27:06.  Freshman Jack Bourbonnais
        rounded out MIT's scoring with a 27:29 in 91st place. 
    
    
      
    
    The men need to run with more hunger and greater passion if
        they hope to reach their potential this season.
    
    
      
    
    Both teams travel to the Mt. Holyoke Invitational next  Saturday
        with the men running at 11:00 and the women at 12:00.  Those racing
        at Pre-nationals will be taking the weekend off at Mt. Holyoke giving the
        second units the opportunity to win the race.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **MIT SHOWS STRENGTH IN DOMINATING
        BATES INVITATIONAL**
    
    
      
    
    September 16, 2006
    
    
      
    
    For the second Saturday in succession the hot and humid weather
        returned to make the cross country racing miserable.  This weekend,
        MIT traveled to the Twinbrook cross country course, home to both Bates College
        and the University of Southern Maine.  Joining the fray was Keene State
        College.  Not only did the runners have to deal with the weather conditions
        but the course itself is a true cross country course with plenty of hills
        and turns through the woods.  
    
    
      
    
    MIT, running a controlled and patient
        race, dominated both the men's and women's races with impressive second half
        efforts to walk-down the competition.  The men out-pointed their opponents
        with 32 points to 65 for USM, 66 for Bates and 69 for Keene State in what
        proved to be a great battle for second place.  The women scored an impressive
        25 points, placing seven runners ahead of Bates and Keene State's third runners.   Bates
        finished with 49 points to 61 for Keene State. 
    
    
      
    
    In the men's race, Keene State sent three runners out at the
        start, creating a sizeable lead at the half-mile mark.  Bates College
        had a large group along with another bunch of Keene State runners just ahead
        of MIT's main pack.  Only Jake Ruzevick had chosen to go out with the
        leaders, running in fifth place at that point in the race.
    
    
      
    
    Between the two mile and three mile marks MIT made a strong
        move to pull even with their opponents and by the fourth mile mark the race
        was over.  MIT ended up with six of the top 12 runners, led by Ruzevick
        with a winning time of 26:57.  Through six runners MIT boasted a delta
        of :53.  Kevin Brulois finished fifth in 27:27, Johannes Schneider in
        27:34, Trevor Rundell in 27:45, Brandon Pung in 27:49 and Joe Roy-Mayhew
        in 27:50.
    
    
      
    
    The women had not intention of being outdone by the men and
        proceeded to display the same patience early in the race and even more aggressiveness
        after the first mile.  Maria Monks grudgingly allowed Evans of Keene
        State to go unopposed but followed the plan for the benefit of the team.  Leading
        fellow freshman Jacqui Wentz and Jennifer Doyle past the Keene State and
        Bates pack of runners in mile two, Monks went on to finish second in 19:30.  Wentz
        and Doyle finished fourth and fifth respectively in 19:57 and 20:01. 
    
    
      
    
    Tech's second pack caught the pack of Bates and Keene State
        runners that could not hang with Monks and company in the early stages of
        the third mile and proceeded to finish hard.  Elizabeth Finn returned
        to her usual outstanding racing with a 20:06 for sixth.  Hana Adaniya
        finished in eighth in 20:16.  Rachel Niehuus back from a brief bout
        with a cold finished in 10th in 20:19 and tri-captain Alisha Schor completed
        the course and top seven runners in 11th in 20:34.  The top six runners
        had an impressive delta of :49.
    
    
      
    
    Next week the top for the women and men travel to Wilmington
        College at the Voice of America course in West Chester, Ohio to race against
        an impressive field at the Division III pre-nationals on Friday at 4:30 for
        the women and 5:15 for the men. 
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    


