



    
    
    
    **ALUMNI OUT RACE VARSITY TO TAKE
    VICTORY**
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    
    
    September 4, 1999
    
    
    
    
    
    On a day more suited for sitting in the shade, and sipping
    lemonade, the MIT Alumni showed up at Franklin Park to take on the
    Varsity in a 5 mile race under 85 degree temperatures and very humid
    conditions.
    
    
    
    
    
    Dan Feldman '02, took the lead at the start and never looked back.
    Ethan Crain '95, Terry McNatt '87, Arnold Seto '96, Jim Garcia '80,
    and Josh Feldman '96 ran together for the first mile (5:02),
    separating themselves from the Varsity's second pack, and trying to
    decide whether or not to go after Feldman.
    
    
    
    
    
    Going into the 3rd mile, the Varsity front runners were supposed
    to have closed the gap on the Alumni lead pack, but instead the gap
    doubled to over 10 seconds, and the Varsity runners were beginning to
    spread out. Meanwhile, Crain, McNatt, and Seto had formed a very
    tight pack, working together to stay in front of the MIT second
    group, but making the decision that catching Feldman was not to
    happen on this day. Garcia had begun to fall back a bit, but was
    still in 5th. Josh Feldman had also been falling off pace a bit and
    had been caught by a couple Varsity members.
    
    
    
    
    
    At the four mile mark, Dan Feldman had opened up over a 20 second
    gap. However, also expanding their lead were the Alumni trio of
    Crain, McNatt, and Seto. Ed Keehr 01, was making an effort to close
    the gap, but could get no closer than 10 seconds. Liyan Guo '01, was
    moving up to Garcia, and Phil Loiselle 01, Chris McGuire '00, and
    Frank Johnston '00 were moving up to and past Josh Feldman, but it
    did not look like it would be enough with the Alumni getting
    2-3-4.
    
    
    
    
    
    The Varsity made a valiant effort over the last 2 miles of the
    race, but the Alumni did not fold. Overall, the Varsity showed that
    they are ahead of last year in some respects, particularly pace
    setting. Regardless, the delta of 1:46 from 1-5 is not going to net a
    lot of victories. Runners 2-9 are going to have to step it up if the
    Engineers are to return home next week from Saratoga, New York with
    the Engineers Cup in hand.
    
    
    
    
    
    Others competing for the Alumni were: Stephen Peckiconis, Mike
    Piepergerdes '93, Rich Rosalez '98, Jon Tong '97, and Chuck Van Buren
    '98, 
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MIT "B" TEAM CLAIMS 12TH AT BABSON
    INVITE**
    
    
    
    **1 - 9 Sit Out To Prepare For National
    Preview**
    
    
    
    
    
    October 2, 1999
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT's 10th-17th runners took to the trails on Saturday to see how
    many varsity teams they could beat. Their quest took them to the top
    half of the field as they finished 12th out of 28 teams. Led by
    freshman Albert Liu (47th), Tech started out slow in the back half of
    the field and moved their way up to finish with outstanding
    performances.
    
    
    
    
    
    The first mile was perhaps a little slow for MIT, but most of the
    rest of the field was a little too anxious to cover the 1st mile.
    Albert, Mark Jeunnette '01, and Kenny Walker '01, were back in about
    120th position at the 1/2 mile mark. They were followed by George
    Hanson '03, Stanley Hu '00, and David Bailey '02 about 25 people
    back, and Yuval Mazor '02, and Alan Raphael '02, 10 or so more
    runners behind.
    
    
    
    
    
    By the 2 mile, Albert had already pulled away from Mark and Kenny
    in his attempt to catch the other runners. Kenny and Mark continued
    to work together as they also picked off their opponents. George and
    Stanley were about 9 seconds back, but running very well together
    with David only a step behind.
    
    
    
    
    
    At mile 3, Albert had pulled over :20 ahead of Mark and Kenny, and
    running a very aggressive race. Mark and Kenny were still together
    but had moved up very little in this mile. Stanley and George were
    almost up to their teammates ahead as they ran a very good mile.
    David had fallen off the aggressive 3rd mile of his teammates and was
    begin caught by Yuval.
    
    
    
    
    
    Mile 4 proved to be the slowest of the day for all the Engineers,
    but most kept it to within :40 of their fastest mile, which was the
    very flat 1st mile. Albert gained another :15 on his teammates as he
    continued to move up in the field. Mark had begun to pull away from
    Kenny as he started to feel more confident knowing the finish way
    getting near. George ran a very strong 4th mile, catching and passing
    Stanley. Yuval caught David, and they began to work together to beat
    opposing runners.
    
    
    
    
    
    At the finish, Tech continued to pass people in the home stretch.
    After Albert's fine performance, which would put him in most team's
    top 5, Jeunnette finished 75th, Walker 82nd, Hanson 86th, and Hu 93rd
    to round out the scoring for MIT. Mazor finished his best cross
    country race ever in 98th as he passed Bailey (99th) at the finish.
    Raphael, also having his best race ever finished 105th.
    
    
    
    
    
    The top 9 did not race so that they could put in a week of extra
    hard training and give the others a chance to race in the varsity
    section of the meet. Next week, the top 9 fly out to Wisconsin to
    race in the National Preview meet against most of the top teams in
    the country.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MIT CAPTURES CODFISH BOWL FOR SECOND
    CONSECUTIVE TIME**
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    
    
    September 25, 1999
    
    
    
    
    
    It is not clear whether the MIT Men's Cross Country Team is
    overachieving, or if they are determined to reach their competitive
    potential, but whichever it is, collectively, they ran a very
    inspired race to defend their Codfish Bowl title at Tufts' Grafton
    course with a low score of 56 points to defeat nationally ranked
    Tufts (14th), and Brandeis (15th), who had 86 and 94 points
    respectively.
    
    
    
    
    
    The course is very hilly with one of the hills coming 100 metes
    into the race, which tends to keep those with experience from going
    out too fast. However, the course also narrows pretty quickly and has
    a narrow starting area to begin with, at least for 225 runners. Given
    the choice of sitting back and getting swallowed by the mass of
    runners, or going out aggressively and risking death on the course,
    those teams who hope to win usually pick the latter.
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT certainly decided on the aggressive approach, to the point
    that Coach Halston Taylor was envisioning a fade comparable to having
    runners try to race with open parachutes on their back. Dan Feldman
    '02, expecting to contend for the individual title, went out with the
    leaders, but had the sense to sit at the back or that pack for the
    first mile, which was in a very fast 4:57. The second pack of Tech
    runners, which included Ed Keehr '01, Sean Montgomery '01, Chris
    McGuire '00, Phil Loiselle '01, and Frank Johnston '00, began the
    race in about 30th position on the first hill, but had already made
    their way into 20th place by the mile mark as they came through in
    5:07. A third group, all freshmen, led by Sean Nolan, were more
    conservative at the mile mark with a 5:20 time, but were already
    beginning to separate.
    
    
    
    
    
    The second mile saw the front pack of runners separate as the fast
    early pace began to take its toll on those who were ill prepared for
    such aggressive racing. Feldman, along with Samson Yohannes from
    Brandeis, and Matt Lyons from Tufts had separated themselves from the
    rest of the field and were pulling away with each step, which was
    indicated by their continued torrid pace of 10:00. Keehr and
    Montgomery had moved into the top 15 at 2 miles (10:19), but seemed
    to be dissatisfied with that position. McGuire, Loiselle, and
    Johnston were still in about 20th, but maintaining their pace well at
    10:23. Nolan and Testa '03, had fallen back some in time (10:46), but
    were maintaining a great pace and were moving up through the sea of
    runners.
    
    
    
    
    
    The third mile is the slowest on the course, in part because of
    the aggressive early running, but also because of the many turns
    combined with the changes in elevation. This fact was consistent with
    the Engineers, but the time deviation was minimal. Feldman had taken
    the lead on Yohannes, and Lyons had fallen off the pace a bit as they
    came through in 15:28. Keehr had moved into the top 10 with a three
    mile split of 15:59. Montgomery had fallen asleep at the wheel and
    fallen back by :02. McGuire, Loiselle, and Johnston were still
    together and maintaining their position with a split of 16:12.
    Meanwhile, Nolan had begun to move up significantly within the pack
    of runners, and for the first time had a mile split faster than
    McGuire's group. It was beginning to look as though the Tech runners
    were not going to fade at all. However, Tufts and Brandeis were still
    very much in this race.
    
    
    
    
    
    At mile four, Feldman was still in the lead, but Yohannes looked a
    bit too comfortable for Dan to feel secure about his lead. Keehr was
    making a move on the top 5 with a vicious 4th mile of 5:22.
    Montgomery continued to doze, which is expected when someone who is
    primarily a middle distance track runner takes a race out so
    aggressively, and fell :14 behind Ed, but he did maintain his
    position in the top 15. McGuire, who had been fluctuating from the
    front to the back and in-between within his group, moved ahead of
    Loiselle by :01 and Johnston by :04. Nolan continued his move to the
    front with a 5:20 mile 4, which moved him to within :10 of Johnston
    and into the top 30. MIT was all but home free.
    
    
    
    
    
    Coming into the finish, MIT continued to pass people. Yohannes
    made a big move and pulled ahead of Feldman, winning the race by :07
    in 25:53, just :12 off the course record. Keehr had another strong
    mile and nearly got 4th place, settling for 5th in 26:39. McGuire
    briefly caught up to Montgomery, woke him up by telling him to get
    going, and finished :07 behind in 16th place. Montgomery finished
    strong and moved up to 12th with a time of 27:01. Loiselle was only
    :08 behind in 21st. Nolan passed Johnston and finished in 23rd with a
    time of 27:22. Sean was the 2nd Division III freshman finisher in the
    race. Johnston was only :02 behind in 25th place. Chris Testa faded a
    bit, but held on pretty well to finish in 35th with a time of 27:53.
    Liyan Guo '01, perhaps overworked in practice this week, had a tough
    outing, finishing in 45th with a 28:35. Albert Liu '03, fell off the
    pace of his group early, but kept a good pace throughout in finishing
    65th with a time of 28:35. Kenny Walker '01, was the final Tech
    finisher in 78th out of 225 registering a time of 28:52.
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, the top 9 are taking a breather before traveling to
    Wisconsin for the National Preview Meet on the 9th. The 10-17 runners
    will compete at the Babson Invitational this coming weekend at Babson
    College.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MIT RETAINS ENGINEERS CUP**
    
    
    
    **Ed Keehr Leads Tech to
    Victory**
    
    
    
    
    
    September 11, 1999
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT's Men's Cross Country team traveled to Saratoga State Park in
    New York, the home course for RPI, to participate in and defend the
    Engineer's Cup this past Saturday. MIT has
    not lost the cup since 1990, when Tech's top three runners were led
    astray on WPI's course, causing their disqualification and MIT's
    loss. Without number one runner Dan Feldman, who was observing Rosh
    Hashanah along with three of his teammates, the other runners on the
    team responded with a much improved race over last week, which
    resulted in a lopsided victory with MIT having the low score of 23
    points to RPI's 48, and WPI's 65.
    
    
    
    
    
    Expecting the course to be nearly all grass and dirt trails, the
    MIT team came prepared with their spikes. Unfortunately, the course
    had nearly 1/2 mile of parking lots, concrete bridges, and roadways
    to cross. Most of the Tech runners with recessed spikes took out
    their spikes. Others either left their spikes in or ran in their
    training flats. This was a lesson learned regarding bringing both
    racing spikes and flats to each race. The humidity was certainly down
    from the last two weeks, and even though the sun was high and hot,
    the MIT runners were ready to get started.
    
    
    
    
    
    Eric Worhunsky of RPI took the pace out hard on the hilly course.
    Ed Keehr '01, grew impatient and broke from the race plan to cover
    the distance between Worhunsky and MIT's chase group. At mile one
    (5:20), Ed was only :03 back, but the remainder of Ed's group (Liyan
    Guo '01, Phil Loiselle '01, and Chris McGuire '00) was all spread out
    2-4 seconds back, mixed in with a couple RPI runners and one WPI
    runner. The remaining MIT groups were sticking to their plan, running
    a good pace, and working together in groups.
    
    
    
    
    
    At mile 2, Ed was still behind but closing. MIT's lead group was
    still in disarray but beginning to regroup it seemed. Sean Montgomery
    '01, was beginning to make a move from his group to try and come and
    help the struggling lead group. Sean Nolan '03, and Frank Johnston
    '00, were also making a move but were a little over :20 back
    already.
    
    
    
    
    
    Mile 3, which was a repeat of mile 1, saw Keehr sprint to the lead
    and take command of the race. Montgomery was now with the chase group
    of Guo, Loiselle, and one runner from both RPI and WPI. McGuire was
    not having a good race and was falling back more each mile. Nolan and
    Johnston were not gaining on the lead group but they had caught up to
    all opposing runners in-between.
    
    
    
    
    
    Mile 4, repeating mile 2, saw very little change. Duane Crammond
    from RPI made a break at the 4 mile mark from Guo and Loiselle in an
    attempt to catch Montgomery, who was trying to catch Worhunsky. Keehr
    had opened up a 100 meter lead at this point and was home free.
    
    
    
    
    
    Ed finished with a fine time of 26:53, winning by 13 seconds.
    Montgomery came in third, and was followed by Guo in 5th and Loiselle
    in 6th. Nolan, Johnston, and McGuire finished 8-9-10 respectively to
    finish out MIT's top 7.
    
    
    
    
    
    Others running well were Kenny Walker '01, Mark Jeunnette '01,
    George Hanson '03, Stanley Hu '00, David Bailey '02, Reid Andersen
    '01, and Alan Raphael '02. All these runners nearly equaled or
    bettered their time from last week's easier and slightly shorter
    course.
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week the Engineers travel to Maine to take on Bates and Tufts
    on Bates home course.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MIT MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY PLACES 14TH AT
    NATIONALS**
    
    
    
    November 20, 1999
    
    
    
    
    
    It was amazing enough that the Men's Cross Country team qualified
    for the NCAA Division III National Championships when they had lost
    their number five runner to an achilles tendon injury, and their
    number two runner to fatigue and an ensuing hip injury. But when the
    21st ranked Engineers placed 14th in a very talent laden field, it
    showed the hard work and determination that these student/athletes
    put into this season.
    
    
    
    
    
    Right from the start of the season MIT was working out of a hole,
    when Mark Strauss, Tech's number one runner from last season, was
    ruled academically ineligible, combined with the loss of 1998 number
    two man, Mike Parkins to graduation. Nevertheless, successful summers
    by most of the returning varsity members seemed to indicate the
    possibility of a successful season.
    
    
    
    
    
    The hard work, and commitment to be the best possible, was
    rewarded by all seven runners achieving personal bests for an 8K
    course. Having run the national course at Oshkosh, Wisconsin once
    before when the Engineers came out for the National Preview meet, and
    knowing that most teams at Nationals tend to go out too fast, MIT
    decided to try and be conservative. While Tech runners still went out
    about 5 seconds too quickly for the first mile, they still were
    better served by holding back as much as they did.
    
    
    
    
    
    At the mile mark, Dan Feldman led all MIT runners with a 4:37
    split, which was 10 seconds behind the leaders. It was obvious that
    Dan had gone out to quickly and that he would pay for it, how much
    was the question. Chris McGuire and Sean Montgomery were next at 4:47
    and 4:49 respectively back in about 120th position. Liyan Guo was
    close behind in 4:50, but Frank Johnston and Chris Testa were in the
    back 40 or so with 4:55 splits. Sean Nolan was a bit too conservative
    with a 5:00 time for the mile.
    
    
    
    
    
    The plan was for the Engineers to move up strongly during the
    second mile, but that did not happen to the degree that the team
    hoped for, possibly due to the ambitious early pace. Feldman did have
    a strong 2nd mile and moved into 23rd place.
    
    
    
    
    
    During the 3rd mile, Feldman fell back to 35th. McGuire and
    Montgomery moved up to about 100th place overall. Guo fell back a bit
    on the third mile, but Testa and Johnston stayed about the same. Mile
    four was very strong for Testa as he moved up to within :03 of
    Guo.
    
    
    
    
    
    The final mile was a good one for MIT. As opposing runners faded,
    Tech runners were picking them off, one by one. Montgomery closed
    hard with a 4:50 last mile to close to within :25 of Feldman who had
    finished in 44th place overall, and 32nd in team scoring. This surge
    placed Sean 95th overall, and 65th in team scoring. Chris McGuire was
    only :05 back, finishing in 102nd overall, and 72nd in team scoring.
    Liyan finished with a 4:55 final mile to place 130th overall, and
    93rd in team scoring. Freshman Chris Testa, substituting for Ed
    Keehr, ran an awesome last mile in 4:52 to place right after Liyan to
    give MIT a total team score of 356, 9 points out of 13th place in the
    24 team field. Frank Johnston finished his MIT career with an
    excellent PR of 26:06, and freshman Sean Nolan also set a PR with a
    time of 26:14. The respective times for Feldman, Montgomery, McGuire,
    Guo, and Testa were 24:44, 25:09, 25:14, 25:29, and 25:29.
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT, finishing 5th among New England colleges, behind Keene State
    in 2nd, Tufts in 9th, Bates in 10th, and Williams in 11th, defeated
    the best teams in four of the regions represented, showing the
    strength of the New England region. Next year, the New England region
    will once again receive 5 team places at Nationals, which is
    determined by each region receiving 1 automatic bid, and 1 additional
    bid for each team that places among the top 16 at Nationals the year
    before, with a cap of 5 being put in place for any region.
    
    
    
    
    
    This bodes well for MIT, who return 8 of their top 10, with 6
    returning runners having broken 26:00 for five miles. A good year of
    track, combined with high mileage in the summer should see the team
    hoping for a higher place when the NCAA Championships are held in
    Spokane, WA in 2000.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **HARRIERS PLACE 11TH IN NEW ENGLAND
    CHAMPIONSHIPS**
    
    
    
    **Despite illness, injury and lack of sleep, MIT
    runs well**
    
    
    
    
    
    October 15, 1999
    
    
    
    
    
    Finishing a second consecutive week where pulling an all-nighter,
    or close to it, was the rule rather than the exception, Phil
    Loiselle's cold would not go away, Sean Montgomery had his second
    bike accident in as many weeks and developed a mild infection, and Ed
    Keehr slept 16 hours for the previous four nights. Nevertheless, the
    varsity, minus #3 Montgomery, and #4 Loiselle, persevered, and all
    but one ran personal bests on Franklin Park's course to bring their
    team to an 11th place finish in the All Division New England Cross
    Country Championships.
    
    
    
    
    
    Making certain they did not get "pulled out" too fast running
    against the Division I faster runners, the MIT harriers followed the
    game plan, going out in the first mile between 4:47 for Feldman to
    5:06 for Guo and Johnston. Although this caused Guo and Johnston to
    have to spend a lot of energy in the first mile getting around
    opposing runners who went out too fast, overall it paid huge
    dividends.
    
    
    
    
    
    Dan Feldman led the way despite spraining his ankle pretty badly
    on Tuesday during an interval workout. Taped up, Dan ran an
    aggressive but intelligent race to finish 19th in 24:56. Based on how
    his fellow Division III competitors fared (5 in top 15), Dan has to
    feel good about how he will run when his ankle is healed.
    
    
    
    
    
    Ed Keehr, somehow managing to put his personal best together
    despite very little sleep this week, finished in 62nd place with a
    25:45. There is no doubt Ed would have finished significantly higher
    had he been a little more rested.
    
    
    
    
    
    Having the best race of his life, Liyan Guo, fought from the back
    thirty or so runners going into the first turn, to finish 76th in the
    field of over 270 runners. Liyan's time of 25:54 is his best ever on
    any course. Even with that, he was able to finish with a very strong
    4th and 5th mile, indicating he still has more improvement to
    come.
    
    
    
    
    
    Captain Chris McGuire, ran with Ed for half of the race, but was
    behind by :04 at the 3 mile mark. Chris continued his improvement
    with a strong, evenly paced race, which helped him break 26:00 with a
    25:58 for 82nd place. Chris will probably be in the top 2 on the team
    at the end of the season as he always is.
    
    
    
    
    
    The most evenly paced race has to go to Frank Johnston. Frank
    deviated only :21 from his fastest to slowest mile, an unusual feat
    in cross country. Frank was also tired from lack of sleep and
    increasing his mileage this week. Nevertheless, the senior put his
    head down and ran his best time ever at Franklin Park with a 26:18
    for 117th place to round out the scoring for MIT.
    
    
    
    
    
    Stepping in to take Sean Montgomery's place was #14 runner,
    Stanley Hu. Stan, a senior, wanted one more opportunity to run a PR
    at Franklin Park. Stan came through, running 28:37 for 247th.
    
    
    
    
    
    The Tech runners showed that they have the desire to succeed under
    very adverse circumstances. They will need this and more to qualify
    for Nationals at the end of the season. There are seven strong teams
    in New England with a chance to win one of the five spots awarded our
    region to go to the National Championships. Next week, MIT takes
    another step toward improving at the Tufts' Invitational at 2:00 on
    Saturday at the Grafton course.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MIT MEN'S XC QUALIFIES FOR
    NATIONALS**
    
    
    
    **In Spite of Losing #2 and #5
    Runners**
    
    
    
    
    
    November 13, 1999
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT Men's Cross Country team ran to 5 personal bests, and another
    season best en route to placing 5th in the New England Division III
    Championship / NCAA Division III Regional Qualifier. New England
    boasts the strongest region in the country, which has earned it the
    right to qualify five teams to Nationals. The five teams that have
    been nationally ranked all season were the same to earn their way to
    Wisconsin next Saturday.
    
    
    
    
    
    Keene State, showing why they are ranked in the top 5 in the
    country, scored 59 points to run away with the team title. Tufts
    University ran a very aggressive race right from the start and held
    on to second place in spite of the fast closing teams. Williams
    College, winners of this race for the past seven years, showed what
    losing two All-Americans can do to a team. Nevertheless, the Ephmen
    held on for third place. Bates College, boasting two runners in the
    top 5, had to wait until their second pack of runners came in
    together at 35, 38, and 39th places before they could be sure they
    would hold on to 4th place.
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT came into the meet knowing that Phil Loiselle, Tech's 4th -
    5th man most of the season, trying for the last month to come back
    from an achilles tendon injury, had to finally pack it in. Ed Keehr,
    the Engineer's #2 runner all season, who has been battling fatigue
    all season, as well as a recent hip injury, was not able to fight the
    obstacles and finished 7th for Tech. Ed, expected to finish in the
    top 20, fell back right from the start, ending up 108th place.
    
    
    
    
    
    Racing with a plan to run a paced race, MIT came through the first
    mile with times ranging from 4:46 for Dan Feldman, to 5:07 for
    freshman Sean Nolan (substituting for Loiselle). What the Engineers
    did not expect was to be so far back with those times. Feldman was
    running with the first group of 15, but Chris McGuire, Sean
    Montgomery, Liyan Guo, Frank Johnston, and Keehr were all between
    80th and 110th place.
    
    
    
    
    
    The Tech runners did not panic, running the 2nd and more difficult
    mile in 4:59 - 5:15. At the two mile split, MIT had collectively
    passed about 50 runners. The third mile, which possessed the only
    real hill on the course, was certainly the slowest. However, by
    pacing the first two miles, MIT's first four runners were able to run
    the split between 5:12 and 5:17, moving McGuire, Montgomery, and Guo
    into the top 35 runners.
    
    
    
    
    
    By the fourth mile, it was apparent that MIT would be in the thick
    of things. The big question was, would Johnston be able to finish
    high enough to assure MIT a place at next week's National
    Championship. During the last mile, McGuire, Montgomery, and Guo all
    moved up quite a few more places. However, Johnston went from about
    50th place to 56th place. At the finish, behind Keene State, the next
    four teams were all within eight points through 4 runners. Tufts had
    72, MIT 76 with a time delta of :42, and Bates and Williams 80. MIT
    lost the battle of #5 runners and finished 5th.
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, the Engineers hope to rest and cut mileage for the
    first time this season. If everyone continues to improve and either
    Johnston or Nolan can put together a great race, MIT should be able
    to place among the top 15 teams at Nationals. Keehr may be able to
    recover in time to reclaim his place among the top 5, but if not,
    Chris Testa will take his place at Oshkosh.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY DEFENDS NEWMAC
    TITLE**
    
    
    
    **Harriers Defeat Coast Guard 21 to
    47**
    
    
    
    
    
    October 30, 1999
    
    
    
    
    
    Once again, MIT Men's Cross Country expected to have a difficult
    battle with the Coast Guard Academy for the New England Women's and
    Men's Athletic Conference Championship, and once again, MIT claimed
    an overwhelming victory. Mt. Holyoke College hosted the 2nd annual
    championship at the Ashley Reservoir. The mostly flat, but rocky, out
    and back course was handled quite well by the Engineers.
    
    
    
    
    
    Coast Guard went out to the front in a relatively slow first mile.
    Dan Feldman accompanied the Bears, running cautiously with his
    injured ankle taped heavily. Chris McGuire and Ed Keehr were :04
    behind, watching the race develop.  Liyan Guo, Sean Montgomery, and
    Frank Johnston were another :03 back, behind many Coast Guard
    runners.
    
    
    
    
    
    At the turn around, halfway through the race, MIT had moved
    slightly ahead of Coast Guard. Feldman was in first by a comfortable
    margin. Trailing Feldman were two Coast Guard runners, one of which
    was All-American Mark Akus. About :06 behind them was McGuire,
    followed closely by another Coast Guard runner. Another :08 back were
    Guo, Johnston and Montgomery, and two Coast Guard runners, all
    running together. The score at this point would have been 34-39. Even
    with the use of a two-way radio at the 1 and 4 mile mark, it was
    difficult to tell which team was pulling away at this point in the
    race.
    
    
    
    
    
    At the four mile mark, the race was well in hand for the
    Engineers. McGuire had moved into a solid second place, and Keehr was
    just passing Steeple Chase All-American Jeff Rasnake from Coast Guard
    for third. Akus had fallen back, and Guo had moved into 5th. Johnston
    was having a solid race in 11th place, in spite of spending nearly
    the entire week in lab, missing significant amounts of sleep.
    Montgomery was not having a good race and was :11 behind
    Johnston.
    
    
    
    
    
    Rasnake caught Keehr, but was unable to make up the ground on
    McGuire. Once Feldman ran away from everyone, he took it easy to
    protect his ankle on the rocky course and only finished :11 ahead of
    McGuire, who cut down on the margin by having an outstanding race
    himself. Keehr finished 4th and Guo remained in 5th. Montgomery
    rallied in the final mile to pass Johnston and end up in 9th position
    to round out the scoring for Tech. Johnston stayed in 12th and once
    again had the best paced race for MIT. Also defeating Coast Guard's
    5th man, and every other team's 4th man or better, were freshmen
    Chris Testa and Sean Nolan in 15th and 16th place.
    
    
    
    
    
    It was a great race for MIT, finishing with a delta of :28 through
    the first four runners, and 1:10 through seven. Coach Halston Taylor
    still feels that MIT is not where they should be, and feels
    significant improvement is needed if they are to make nationals in
    two weeks when they race in the Regional Qualifier at UMass Dartmouth
    on November 13. The top 5 teams, and top 7 individuals will qualify
    for the NCAA Division III Championships in Oshkosh, Wisconsin.
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MIT FINISHES 8TH AT NATIONAL
    PREVIEW**
    
    
    
    **Fast Start Works Against Tech
    Runners**
    
    
    
    
    
    October 9, 1999
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT Men's Cross Country team, ranked 13th nationally in Division
    III, traveled to Oshkosh, WI this past weekend to race 18 other
    teams, 5 of them ranked in the top 10. The course will also be the
    site of the National Championships on Nov. 21. Falling victims to an
    overly aggressive first mile, the Tech harriers paid dearly in the
    final miles on the mostly flat course, finishing 8th behind seven
    other nationally ranked teams.
    
    
    
    
    
    The plan was to go out in about 40th to 50th position for most of
    the top 7, and work up to the top 20-30 runners. However, a sprint at
    the start, combined with the comfort of a flat course put all 9 under
    5:00 at the mile and in the top 35. Dan Feldman '02, led the way up
    in the front pack of 5 at 4:47.
    
    
    
    
    
    By mile two, North Central, Calvin, UW La Crosse, and UW
    Whitewater, running more intelligent races, had worked their way up
    to MIT. Tech had held on pretty well to this point, running the two
    miles in 9:52 to 10:14, but the leading teams were still passing
    them.
    
    
    
    
    
    The third mile was the beginning of the end for Sean Montgomery
    '01, Sean Nolan '03, Phil Loiselle '01, and Chris Testa '03 as they
    ran miles of 5:17, 5:23, 5:28, and 5:36 respectively. Fortunately,
    Feldman, Ed Keehr '01, Chris McGuire '00, Liyan Guo '01, and Frank
    Johnston '00, were still holding on in spite of the obvious pain.
    
    
    
    
    
    The fourth mile, the most difficult on the course, had UW Oshkosh
    steadily pass the Engineers to move into 6th place. Haverford
    College, which also started out too quickly, seemed to have a greater
    threshold for pain or at least a greater desire to win, stayed ahead
    of MIT to lay claim to 7th place. MIT seemed to running backward at
    this point, as opposing runners continued to pass. 
    
    
    
    
    
    The final mile was a bit of a rally for Tech, which probably
    indicates a lack of focus during the 3rd and 4th miles. Dan Feldman,
    ran a great race in his first race of this caliber, finishing 11th in
    25:05 in the quality field. Also running well were Keehr 25:40,
    McGuire 25:43, and Guo 26:02. Liyan seemed to run the smartest race
    of the Tech 9 with a :29 variance from his fastest to slowest
    mile.
    
    
    
    
    
    Next Friday, MIT gets the opportunity to make amends when they
    race in the all division New England Championship at Franklin
    Park.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY GOES TO
    4-0**
    
    
    
    **Harriers Take Advantage of Injury Plagued Bates
    and Tufts**
    
    
    
    
    
    September 18, 1999
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT made the trip to Lewiston, Maine on Saturday with high hopes
    of winning the Bates, Tufts, MIT triangular meet for the third year
    in a row. Realistically, the Engineers did not have a good chance of
    defeating Tufts, and only a slim one of defeating Bates, but the MIT
    harriers went into the race to do their best to upend the nationally
    ranked teams (12th and 19th respectively).
    
    
    
    
    
    In MIT's favor, the number 2 and 3 runners for Tufts, and the
    number 3 runner for Bates were out with injuries. MIT was healthy and
    took advantage of the injured squads with a hard fought, very close
    battle, that went down to the very end as MIT came home with 40
    points to 41 for Bates, and 44 for Tufts.
    
    
    
    
    
    The course was extremely hilly, pretty wet, and a little long at
    5.05 miles. the rain from Hurricane Floyd caused a course alteration
    at the last minute, making it new to everyone. The first mile, even
    though it had a lot of rolling hills, went out in a quick 5:03 for
    the leaders, who were Mike Danahy of Bates, Matt Lyons of Tufts, and
    Dan Feldman '02, from MIT. A couple of Bates runners followed
    closely, and then a group of MIT, Tufts, and Bates runners trailed
    between :13-:22 back. By mile two, the lead group of three had
    expanded their lead to nearly :30 over the main pack. However, that
    main pack had begun to make up ground on the two Bates runners.
    
    
    
    
    
    At mile three, Danahy had pulled away from Feldman, and Dan pulled
    away from Lyons. Ed Keehr '01, and Sean Montgomery '01, had nearly
    caught up to All-American Miler, Matt Twiest from Bates in 4th
    position, and were closely followed by one Bates and two Tufts'
    runners, giving all teams three runners in the top 9. The third
    group, consisting of two MIT runners (Phil Loiselle '01, and Liyan
    Guo '01), two Bates runners, and two Tufts' runners were waging their
    own battle. The one difference in MIT's favor was a group of three
    runners (Frank Johnston '00, Chris McGuire '00, and Sean Nolan '03)
    who were closing quickly on the other team's fourth and fifth
    runners.
    
    
    
    
    
    By mile four, Keehr and Twiest were pulling ahead of everyone else
    to battle for 4th place. Montgomery and Loiselle were not catching
    the #3 Tufts' and Bate's runners, but Johnston, Guo, McGuire, and
    Nolan were pulling away from both team's 5th runner. Coaches always
    tell their runners that one place could make a difference, and that
    the 6th and 7th men can win the meet. Well, here was the often told
    story coming true.
    
    
    
    
    
    The finish did not change any. All three teams interchanged places
    for 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th runners. Through four runners, the score
    was Bates 24, MIT, and Tufts 27. Johnston finished 5th for Tech, and
    Guo, McGuire, and Nolan all finished ahead of both team's #5 runner,
    securing the victory by 1 point over Bates.
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, MIT's plans to race in the Codfish Bowl at Franklin
    Park have been detoured as the Ryder Cup has displaced the meet to
    Tufts' course out in Grafton.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MIT LOSES TO TUFTS IN TUFTS'
    INVITATIONAL**
    
    
    
    **Keehr and Loiselle Sit Meet
    Out**
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    
    
    October 23, 1999
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT Men's Cross Country took a trip out to Grafton, Massachusetts
    to run Tufts University in a very small invitational. Swarthmore
    College made the trip up from Pennsylvania, but they were the only
    other complete team to enter the meet. Tufts, recovering from early
    season injuries, and running a smart race, held on to an early lead
    to defeat Tech in a close race, 31 to 33, with Swarthmore pulling up
    the rear with 67 points.
    
    
    
    
    
    Tech, having defeated Tufts three times already this season,
    including last week in the New England Championships, was not as
    motivated as they should have been. Not helping with the motivational
    factor was the fact that number 2 man, Ed Keehr, was being held back
    due to a consistent pattern he has had with lack of sleep. Also,
    number 5 runner, Phil Loiselle was held out for the second week in a
    row as he recovers from a cold and minor leg injury.
    
    
    
    
    
    Motivated or not, no MIT runner was complaining or running less
    than their best. Dan Feldman burst out to an early lead on the cool
    and very windy day. At the mile mark, there was a large group of
    Tufts' runners following two Swarthmore runners very closely, who in
    turn were far behind Feldman. MIT was in good position with the top
    runners all between 5:04 and 5:16 for the first mile. 
    
    
    
    
    
    During the second mile, Chris McGuire moved up to 2nd place, :09
    behind Dan. Sean Montgomery and Frank Johnston were :10 back behind
    Chris. Moving into the 3rd mile Sean was just moving past a couple of
    Tufts' runners to pull into 5th place overall. 
    
    
    
    
    
    At the 3 mile mark, Matt Lyons from Tufts, who had started the
    race out slow, moved to the front of the chase group, about :20
    behind Feldman. Shortly after that, Lyons passed McGuire and took
    another Tufts runner and a Swarthmore runner with him, leaving
    McGuire in 5th place and Montgomery in 6th. Just before the 4 mile
    mark, Liyan Guo and Frank Johnston were making their move on Tufts
    4th and 5th runners respectively.
    
    
    
    
    
    As the runners went into the woods during the last mile, Feldman
    reinjured his sprained ankle and slowed considerably, allowing Lyons
    to catch up. McGuire was unable to catch the #2 Tufts man, but both
    he and Montgomery were able to hold off the #3 Tufts man. Liyan was
    making a serious challenge on 8th place, but was still in 9th with
    300 meters to go. Johnston was right behind in 10th but lacking a
    serious kick, was looking as though he might not be able to hold off
    one runner each from Tufts and Swarthmore as they entered the final
    straight.
    
    
    
    
    
    Tufts finished better than MIT, and that was the meet. With the
    exception of Guo, MIT runners got left behind with 300 meters to
    go.
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, MIT heads to Mt. Holyoke to defend their NEWMAC
    Championship against nationally ranked Coast Guard. Coach Taylor
    feels the Tech harriers have not come close to fulfilling their
    potential, and need to work on their sense of pride if they hope for
    their season to last beyond November 13th.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    


