



    
    
    
    **VARSITY SWEEPS ALUMNI IN SEASON
    OPENER**
    
    
    
    September 2, 2000
    
    
    
    
    
    Franklin Park
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT's varsity cross country team ran past the alumni team,
    breaking the leaders for the Alumni in the 4th mile, en route to a
    sweep with a score of 15-46. Dan Feldman '02, led the Varsity with a
    start to finish victory in 26:00 on the 8K course. Dan was followed
    by Ed Keehr '01, Sean Nolan '03, Mark Strauss '02, and Liyan Guo '01,
    all within 28 seconds of Dan. The wet course, particularly the area
    back in the wilderness loop, slowed the runners significantly,
    accounting for the slow times.
    
    
    
    
    
    The Alumni were represented by only 5 individuals, but those
    individuals had certainly made their mark on MIT cross country when
    they were training consistently. Jesse Darley led the way for the
    "Has Beens" with a 26:41, and was followed by Arnold Seto in 27:12,
    placing 6th and 7th respectively. Frank Johnston ran 28:21, Mike
    Piepergerdes 29:11, and Chris McGuire 29:36 to complete the Alumni
    score.
    
    
    
    
    
    Sean Nolan had the largest improvement on his Franklin Park best
    time as he went from a best of 27:53 to 26:20. Albert Liu '03, also
    demonstrated what high mileage can do as he moved his best from 28:21
    to 27:19. Also making a big improvement was George Hanson '03, who
    improved his Franklin Park best by 1:12, running 28:29. Brian
    Anderson '04, and Craig Wildman '03 made their college cross country
    debuts, finishing 7th and 8th respectively in 27:20 and 28:11. Sean
    Montgomery '01, a consistent part of the top 5 last year, has been
    slow to get into race shape thus far, finishing in 12th place with a
    time of 28:14.
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, MIT travels to WPI to defend the Engineer's Cup against
    RPI and WPI. The men will race on campus at 12:45.
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **HARRIERS "B" TEAM PLACES 2ND AT BRYANT
    INVITATIONAL**
    
    
    
    October 6, 2000
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT's top eight runners had their first weekend off from racing,
    and in their stead, the "B" team competed at the Bryant College
    Invitational. Led by Brian Anderson, who finished 13th, the Engineers
    finished 2nd out of 8 schools with 78 points behind WPI's 39.
    
    
    
    
    
    Running on a near perfect day, weather wise, and a very
    challenging course that offered hills, narrow paths, and sharp turns,
    the MIT harriers ran a very inspired, if not a well paced race, to
    have a time spread among their top five runners of only :13 seconds.
    Not being accustomed to being the group that is expected to bring the
    trophy back to Cambridge, the number 9-20 runners went into the race
    with a plan to accomplish just that. However, having a plan and
    having the patience to make the plan work are two very different
    things.
    
    
    
    
    
    An ambitious pace was established by the lead pack for the largely
    downhill first mile. The second mile had many tight turns and a fair
    share of hills. Most of those who continued the ambitious pace for
    this mile paid dearly later in the race. The third mile was a very
    difficult mile that allowed for very little passing due to the
    narrowness of the course. MIT moved from a 3rd place position at mile
    two to a small lead at the end of mile three. This move was a bit
    premature given the uphill nature of the last two miles, and proved
    to be the downfall of the MIT team as the WPI runners reestablished
    the lead and pulled away in the final mile to a convincing
    victory.
    
    
    
    
    
    The inexperience of the Tech runners takes nothing away from the
    strong effort put forth by the entire team. Following Anderson were
    Matt Yarosz in 14th, Ray Molnar in 16th, George Hanson in 17th, and
    Phil Loiselle in 18th. Jeff Billing, who finished 21st ran the
    smartest and most evenly paced race for MIT with only a :39 second
    difference from his fastest to slowest mile, which on such
    drastically different terrain and topography, was remarkable.
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, the top 7 will be back in business, competing in the
    All New England Championship at Franklin Park on Friday at 1:30. This
    meet tends to mirror the NCAA Division III Championships pretty
    closely. Even without at least one of their top 5 runners, the
    Engineers hope to finish in the top 10 against the mainly Division I
    opponents.
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **HARRIERS HAVE LETDOWN AND LOSE TO
    TUFTS**
    
    
    
    **Feldman Remains Undefeated With Codfish Bowl
    Victory**
    
    
    
    
    
    September 23, 2000
    
    
    
    
    
    Although the MIT harriers failed to defend the Codfish Bowl, Dan
    Feldman took care of the field with a decisive 10 second victory
    under very humid conditions at the Franklin Park course. Tufts
    University took MIT to task as they avenged their loss the week
    before in a tri-meet at their home course.
    
    
    
    
    
    After a hard week of training, MIT was looking forward to racing
    against 2nd ranked Keene State. Finding out that Keene State was not
    racing their top runners, the MIT runners seemed to lose a little of
    their edge. Whether it was fatigue from their hard week of practice,
    or a mental letdown, it nevertheless spelled defeat as a Tufts
    University squad ran an outstanding race outscoring MIT 66-77. Coach
    Halston Taylor feels MIT would have won by at least 20 points if they
    would have raced the way they did the week before. Even with Mark
    Strauss being out with injury, MIT should have placed 5 runners in
    the top 20.
    
    
    
    
    
    At the first mile, MIT was in good shape with Feldman just behind
    the lead group in 4:53, and Ed Keehr and Sean Nolan six seconds back.
    Albert Liu and Sean Montgomery were about 10 seconds behind Keehr and
    Nolan and looking ready to move on those ahead. It appeared that most
    teams had gone out too fast, as Tufts, Trinity, and UMass Lowell all
    had 5 runners up in front. 
    
    
    
    
    
    By mile two, it was apparent that those teams going out fast were
    starting to break up, but so was the team from Tech, even after their
    conservative start. Although they were breaking up prematurely, many
    still looked as though they were going to put on their patented
    "walkdown" of their opponents. Feldman was the exception as he opened
    up a 4 second lead by the 2 mile mark and was not planning on being
    caught.
    
    
    
    
    
    The third mile, a relatively easy one, was where MIT caved.
    Instead of running faster than the difficult second mile, Keehr,
    Montgomery, Liyan Guo, and Brian Anderson all ran slower, which
    indicated a total lack of focus or fatigue. By the three mile mark it
    was obvious MIT was going to be lucky to break into the top 3 as they
    were in a solid 4th place at that time.
    
    
    
    
    
    The fourth mile was generally kinder to MIT than to the others,
    but only slightly. MIT appeared desperate whereas Tufts looked
    determined. Feldman was again the exception as he continued to expand
    his lead. With speed from runners like Nolan and Montgomery, MIT was
    hoping for a big enough comeback in mile 5 to catch their rivals.
    
    
    
    
    
    Mile 5 did show an improvement in the score as MIT caught Trinity
    College and UMass Lowell, both of who continued to fade and pay for
    their ambitious early pace. However, Tufts was not to be caught as JR
    Cruz, Dave Patterson, and Ben Smith all avenged a loss to Ed Keehr
    from the week before. Nolan ran a pretty good race as he recovered
    from a mild hip strain and finished 9th. Keehr finished 12th but the
    next Tech finisher was Liu in 25th place. Montgomery closed out the
    MIT scoring with a 30th place finish. The 1:41 delta for MIT's top 5
    was far from what will be needed to compete against the power houses
    from North Central College and Nebraska Wesleyan, ranked 3rd and 4th
    respectively, next Friday at the National Preview meet in Spokane,
    Washington.
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **HARRIERS SWEEP OPPOSITION IN ENGINEER'S
    CUP**
    
    
    
    **Feldman Leads From Start to Finish in
    25:16**
    
    
    
    
    
    September 9, 2000
    
    
    
    
    
    Running on a new course, in hot and humid conditions, MIT's Mens
    Cross Country team defended the Engineer's Cup against RPI and WPI
    for the fifth year in succession. Not only did the Tech harriers win,
    they swept for the second week in a row, outscoring their opponents
    15 to 49 for RPI to 56 for WPI.
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT's plan was to run an aggressive pace on this predominantly
    flat, but untried course, even given the heat and humid conditions
    the runners were no longer accustomed to. Dan Feldman '02, went out
    in the lead at the start, coming through the first mile in 4:57. Dan
    continued to run a relatively even pace the entire race as he led
    from start to finish in a winning time of 25:16.
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT's second group, consisting of Sean Nolan '03, Ed Keehr '01,
    and Liyan Guo '01 had to run without Mark Strauss '02, due to a
    strained quadriceps muscle. Nevertheless, the group ran a great race,
    going out in a conservative 5:12, trailing ambitious Justin Lutz from
    WPI who had gone out with Feldman. By mile 2 Nolan and Keehr had
    walked Lutz down and continued to negative split the course, running
    25:41 and 25:45 respectively. Liyan Guo had a more difficult time
    with the heat and the course, but nevertheless placed 4th in
    26:20.
    
    
    
    
    
    Tech's 3rd group went out a little too fast and except for Albert
    Liu '03, paid dearly as they broke up early on in the race, pulling
    their collective parachutes. Albert went out a little quickly but his
    summer of high mileage gave him the strength to minimize his loss,
    allowing him to keep his miles within 15 seconds of each other, and
    place 5th to give MIT the sweep. Sean Montgomery '01, and freshman
    Brian Anderson did not fair so well. 
    
    
    
    
    
    The 4th group broke up after the first mile as Craig Wildman '03,
    ran an aggressive 2nd mile, and an even more aggressive 3rd mile. The
    hot conditions made Craig pay the price as he faded badly in the last
    mile, but held on for 7th on the team and 12th overall. George Hanson
    '03, ran an outstanding race, slowing a bit on the 3rd mile, but
    generally passing people the entire race to finish 6th on the team
    and 11th overall.
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, the Engineers travel to Tufts' course in Grafton to
    race Tufts and Bates who last year placed 9th and 10th at nationals
    respectively.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY 
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **HARRIERS IMPROVE IN MAYOR'S CUP**
    
    
    
    **Despite Early Fast Pace, Tech Runners Compete
    Well**
    
    
    
    
    
    October 22, 2000
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT's men's cross country team tried their competitive luck
    against the clubs of the region, and came away with an improved
    effort over their previous race as they finished 8th out of 15
    teams.
    
    
    
    
    
    With four weeks before the national championships, MIT needed to
    start running a little more like a top 10 team. In part, they needed
    to run with a complete team, and second, they needed to run a
    patient, intelligent race. They accomplished the former, but failed
    at the latter. Ed Keehr returned to racing form, and Liyan Guo made
    significant improvement in his second week back. However, the team
    got pulled out a little too fast in the first 200 meters, and ended
    up slowing down significantly between the end of mile one and the end
    of mile two.
    
    
    
    
    
    Dan Feldman, Tech's number one runner, claiming fatigue prior to
    the start of the race, faded uncharacteriscally from 15th place to
    46th at the finish. Making up for Feldman's woes, was Sean Nolan, who
    was only :13 back. Keehr, running with Nolan for much of the race,
    was only :06 behind Nolan. Alber Liu had a PR of :16 as he continued
    to run better each week, and was :39 behind Feldman. Guo, running
    with Liu for awhile, faded some, but held on to finish only :10 back.
    Overall, the :49 delta was the best since the first meet of the
    season. Sean Montgomery and Craig Wildman continued to offer support.
    Sean ran over :30 faster than he did on the same course a week ago,
    and Craig ran a personal best time by :15.
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, the Engineers host the NEWMAC Championship at Franklin
    Park where they hope to continue to improve and get ready for the
    national qualifier on November 11. MIT is the defending two time
    champion, and the only team to ever win the men's championship.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **HARRIERS FALTER IN NCAA
    QUALIFIER**
    
    
    
    November 11, 2000
    
    
    
    
    
    In a race very reminiscent of the national qualifier two years
    ago, MIT's Men's Cross Country team followed a very well run NEWMAC
    Conference Championship with a poorly run, uninspired race that saw
    the team finish sixth in the 35 team field, 7 points out of the 5th
    place necessary to return to the NCAA Division III Championship next
    week in Spokane.
    
    
    
    
    
    Two years ago, MIT headed into the national qualifier as the team
    favored to finish 2nd and a virtual shoe-in to make the trip to
    nationals. That day, the two front runners perhaps went out a little
    too fast, and faded back to 29th and 34th place, causing Tech to
    finish 5th, one place out of the those advancing. This year, Dan
    Feldman and Sean Nolan went out in perfect position, running
    conservatively, seven seconds behind the leader in 4:57 at the mile
    mark. By the two mile mark, Dan had moved to 13th place with Sean
    back in 16th and both were moving on the leaders. However, by mile
    three, it appeared they were no longer moving well and falling back
    in the field. This trend continued, leaving Sean as MIT's first
    finisher in 25th place, followed by Dan in 37th place.
    
    
    
    
    
    Tech's second group, consisting of Albert Liu, Sean Montgomery,
    and Liyan Guo, went out about 10 seconds too slow at the mile mark,
    placing themselves about 100 runners out in 5:17. The group made up a
    lot of ground, but the wet conditions and muddy course was too much
    to hope for a big comeback. Albert finished up with a solid race,
    placing 41st. Montgomery faded a bit in the last two miles, but still
    held on for a 47th place. Liyan ran into trouble after mile two as a
    stitch in his side inhibited his performance. Liyan made a valiant
    effort but could do no better than 60th place.
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT's 208 points fell 7 behind Coast Guard, a team MIT defeated
    two weeks ago in their conference championship 32-52. Not only did
    the team miss nationals by 1 place, Sean Nolan also missed advancing
    as an individual by 1 place.
    
    
    
    
    
    Coach Halston Taylor could not explain the poorly run race. "The
    injuries to Mark Strauss and Ed Keehr certainly hindered the
    potential of the team, but we won the conference title without either
    of them in the race. It seemed like the team took the trip to
    nationals for granted and did not prepare very well. However, even if
    that were the case, if the second group had been more competitive in
    the first mile, things should have worked out. We have to remind
    ourselves next year that the race not only has to be run, it has to
    be run well and with passion, or we will stay home again. With a
    returning five of Feldman, Nolan, Strauss, Liu and Montgomery, it
    certainly seems that the potential is there to make the trip to
    nationals, but only the runners will know if they want it badly
    enough."
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MIT HARRIERS FINISH 18TH AT ALL NEW
    ENGLAND CHAMPIONSHIP**
    
    
    
    Franklin Park - October 13, 2000
    
    
    
    
    
    It was an unseasonably hot day, and the forces were a bit
    depleted, but expectations of setting a positive trend for the
    remainder of the championship season were high. In a race filled with
    mixed results for the MIT troops, Tech finished 18th out of 42 New
    England Colleges representing all Divisions sponsored by the NCAA,
    and 5th out of the Division III Institutions.
    
    
    
    
    
    Dan Feldman led the way as usual with a solid 17th place
    performance. Uncharacteristically, Dan ran a conservative first two
    miles, but probably stressed too much about where he wanted to
    eventually finish, thus using up all his energy before the finish
    despite the paced effort. Dan moved from 45th at the mile to 29 at
    the 2 mile to 19th at the 3 mile. It was a great plan, but there
    wasn't much left in the tank to finish the job.
    
    
    
    
    
    Sean Nolan also ran a conservative race, and for the first time
    this season, was by himself as Ed Keehr was out resting a tight
    hamstring. Sean ran a strong race, also moving up throughout the
    length of the race. When Keehr comes back, they should make a very
    formidable pair.
    
    
    
    
    
    Albert Liu was the third Tech runner through the finish, and did
    so in 109th place. Albert's time of 26:30 was his best ever. Albert's
    confidence is growing incrementally, and should be right where he and
    his team wants it in four weeks.
    
    
    
    
    
    Liyan Guo made his first race back from a thigh injury a
    successful one as he ran 26:45 to finish in 128th place. While the
    time is nearly a minute slower than his best time ever, it is better
    than he was running prior to taking some time off. Liyan has been
    there before and knows how to get the job done.
    
    
    
    
    
    In Ed Keehr's absence, Craig Wildman, Sean Montgomery, and Brian
    Anderson were out to step up and get the job done. Although Craig ran
    a personal best by 1 second, it was not enough as the delta for
    runners 1-5 fell to 2:04. Sean "has fallen and cannot get up" as he
    tries to find his way back to the form that had him finish 65th at
    last year's nationals. Brian is just learning how to race cross
    country with the same success that he is accustomed to in track. His
    best time this year at Franklin Park is 27:20, showing promise for
    the future.
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, the team will travel back to Franklin Park for the
    Mayor's Cup, which will be held on Sunday.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **ENGINEERS WIN NEWMAC TITLE FOR THIRD
    CONSECUTIVE YEAR**
    
    
    
    **Feldman and Nolan Finish 1-2 to Lead MIT
    Triumph**
    
    
    
    
    
    October 28, 2000
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT, the host of the 3rd annual NEWMAC Cross Country Championship,
    defended their title as Men's Champion for the second consecutive
    year with 32 points, making MIT the only team to ever win the
    championship. The Coast Guard Academy, running a strong race,
    finished second with 52 points.
    
    
    
    
    
    The course at Franklin Park was in very good shape and quite fast,
    but the 30+ mph winds and sub 50 degree temperatures made the day a
    little less than comfortable. These conditions did not deter Dan
    Feldman and Sean Nolan of MIT. After sitting back a little during the
    first mile, the duo opened up a 30 meter lead within the next half
    mile, and never looked back.
    
    
    
    
    
    Mark Akus and Ian Bartonicek of Coast Guard trailed Nolan by :19
    and :33 seconds respectively, but nevertheless, finished 3rd and 4th.
    Ten seconds back, Ben Schluckebier of Coast Guard finished in 7th
    place, putting their 3rd runner in front of MIT's. Whatever thoughts
    of MIT losing the meet, ended :06 later, as Sean Montgomery, finding
    the racing form that has eluded him since last year's Nationals,
    finished 8th overall. Following closely behind in 10th and 11th were
    Albert Liu and Liyan Guo, both running season bests with times of
    26:08 and 26:10 respectively. Coast Guard's final two scorers
    finished in 17th and 21st place to secure the second place team
    finish. Springfield College had all five of their scorers in within
    the first 15 places, with a :45 delta of separation, but their first
    finisher was back in 6th place.
    
    
    
    
    
    Both Springfield and Coast Guard were out quickly on the basically
    flat course, coming through the first mile in 4:56. Even though
    Feldman and Nolan were out front at two miles, both Springfield and
    Coast Guard had five runners in front of MIT's 3rd runner. Running as
    a group, Montgomery, Liu and Guo were intent on catching the opposing
    runners, but were also patient, knowing how difficult the 2nd, and
    4th miles were. By mile three, MIT had taken the lead. The final two
    miles, MIT runners continued to catch and pass their opponents,
    placing 10 runners in the top 33. MIT achieved this without the
    services of #3 runner, Ed Keehr, who was sitting out the race with a
    tight hamstring.
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, the Engineers will not race as they regroup for the
    National Qualifier on November 11th, which will be held at UMass
    Dartmouth. Tech hopes to have the troops healthy and ready to make
    another trip to the National Championship to be held in Spokane.
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MIT PLACES 4TH AT NATIONAL
    PREVIEW**
    
    
    
    **Missing Runners Hurt
    Tech**
    
    
    
    
    
    September 28, 2000
    
    
    
    
    
    Assuming, perhaps prematurely, they will qualify for the NCAA
    Cross Country Championships in November, MIT made their annual trek
    to the National Preview Invitational. In a small field of nine teams,
    including defending national champion North Central College, MIT
    placed 4th with 101 points behind North Central (55), Nebraska
    Wesleyan (65), and Lewis and Clark University (71).
    
    
    
    
    
    Ranked as high as 7th in NCAA Division III this season, MIT has
    begun to slip as injuries to Mark Strauss and Liyan Guo, coupled with
    no one on the team stepping up to help the consistent running of Dan
    Feldman, Ed Keehr, and Sean Nolan, has proven the team is not a top
    10 team and may have some work to do if they want to make nationals.
    In this meet, Nolan, finishing 11th for MIT behind Feldman in 5th,
    and Keehr in 10th, placed higher than any other teams 3rd man. Tech
    then had to wait over a minute for their next finisher, Albert Liu,
    as 26 runners crossed the line. Albert and Sean Montgomery ran
    together for most of the race and finished together in 26:49, placing
    37 and 38 respectively.
    
    
    
    
    
    On a basically flat course, the leaders went out in a crisp but
    conservative 4:54 for the first mile. Feldman was among the leaders
    right at the start as a group of six runners broke away from the rest
    of the field. Keehr and Nolan were in about 15th position at the mile
    mark. Liu and Montgomery, running conservatively with a 5:10 1st
    mile, moved up to around 35th position by the 2 mile mark. Places did
    not change much for the remainder of the race, although collectively,
    Tech did lose 13 points in the final 3 miles. 
    
    
    
    
    
    Coach Halston Taylor feels his harriers continue to go out a
    little too fast at the start. However, he also says, "We can compete
    with anyone in Division III through our first 3 runners. I have faith
    the team will step up when the time comes."
    
    
    
    
    
    For the second week in succession, Ray Molnar has shown he wants
    to be in the top 7 at the end of the season as he finished 6th for
    the Engineers in 46th place. Three places back, Craig Wildman also
    ran well to finish as MIT's 7th man.
    
    
    
    
    
    If MIT can get their missing runners healthy, and close the gap
    between their current 3 and 4 runners, they will indeed be a team to
    reckon with. As it is, they are a good team that is missing a piece
    of the puzzle.
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, those not racing in Spokane this weekend, will make the
    trip to Rhode Island for the Bryant College Invitational. The varsity
    will rest up for the All New England Championship on October 13.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY EDGES OUT TUFTS IN
    TRI-MEET**
    
    
    
    **1-2 Finish By Feldman and Keehr Lead Way To
    Victory**
    
    
    
    
    
    September 16, 2000
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT's Mens Cross Country team traveled to the Tufts' course at
    their veterinary school in Grafton, Massachusetts ranked 7th in NCAA
    Division III. The MIT harriers did nothing to hurt that ranking as
    they defeated 12th ranked Tufts and 24th ranked Bates by a score of
    26 to 35 to 73.
    
    
    
    
    
    Dan Feldman '02, led from the 1 mile mark to the finish with a
    comfortable 12 second margin of victory over teammate Ed Keehr '01.
    Ed had a challenging battle with JR Cruz and did not pull away until
    the final mile. Sean Nolan '03, ran a great race while suffering with
    a cold in its early stages. Sean seemed to lose focus during the very
    difficult 3rd mile, but got back in the race during mile 4 as he
    sensed he could catch David Patterson from Tufts. Sean did this and
    held onto 4th place despite falling back in the last mile.
    
    
    
    
    
    After Sean, MIT sorely missed Mark Strauss '02, out with a quad
    strain for the second race in a row. Picking up the slack, but not
    until Tufts had their 4th runner in, were Albert Liu '03, Liyan Guo
    '01, and Sean Montgomery '01, who finished 9th, 10th, and 11th
    respectively to seal the victory over Tufts. Albert ran a very good
    race, deviating his pace very little throughout the race. Liyan did
    not handle the hills very well, and it showed as he faded behind
    Albert in the 3rd mile. Nevertheless, Liyan rallied in the final two
    miles to prevent anyone from Tufts catching him. Sean is slowly
    rounding back into the racing shape and attitude that had him as
    Tech's #2 runner last year. Sean ran a strong race for the first four
    miles, but failed to rally with his usually strong final mile that
    his opponents have grown to fear.
    
    
    
    
    
    A supporting cast consisting of Brian Anderson '04, George Hanson
    '03, Craig Wildman '03, and Matt Yarosz '00, finished well in 17th,
    20th, 22nd, and 23rd places respectively, but did not figure in the
    scoring. The group broke up early and did little to help each other
    during the race. Their individual competitiveness and hard training
    allowed them to have a good race on a course slowed significantly by
    the heavy rains the day before that made the ground soft and grass a
    little tall.
    
    
    
    
    
    The MIT team is rounding into a very good team. Right now their
    consistent spread of 20+ seconds separating the top 3 runners is
    great. When Strauss joins that group they will be one short of a
    great team. If Montgomery can get back to form, or Phil Loiselle '01,
    who is just coming back from a summer injury, can return to his
    racing form of last year, or someone else can step up, MIT's XC team
    will be one to reckon with at the Championships in November.
    
    
    
    
    
    This coming weekend, MIT travels to their home course at Franklin
    Park to defend the Codfish Bowl.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    


