



    
    
    
    **Varsity Runs Away With Cross Country
    Meet**
    
    
    
    September 1, 2001
    
    
    
    
    
    75 degrees, windy
    
    
    
    
    
    Franklin Park
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    
    
    The MIT Men's Cross Country team showed they did their summer
    training and intend on producing another successful season Saturday
    when they ran away from an underrepresented Alumni team,
    affectionately known as the Has-Beens, 19-42.
    
    
    
    
    
    The grass was high and new ground had been installed on Bear Cage
    Hill, both of which slowed things down considerably. However, don't
    tell Dan Feldman that. After a first mile in 4:50, Dan pressed on,
    winning by 1:00 over former All-America runner, Ethan Crain in 25:19.
    This was Ethan's first race in over a year after a long recovery from
    Achilles Tendinitis.
    
    
    
    
    
    After Dan, the second group of Tech runners went out
    conservatively, slowly trying to catch up to Crain. By the end, Sean
    Montgomery had done just that, only to fall prey to Crain's deadly
    kick. Sean Nolan, Ben Schmeckpeper and Albert Liu were within :35 of
    Montgomery and showed a good front effort for the Engineers.
    
    
    
    
    
    Has-Been, Josh Feldman followed MIT's top 5 with a fine effort.
    The next six runners were representing the Varsity and were within
    :39 of each other. George Hanson was the leader in this group,
    followed by Craig Wildman, Carlos Renjifo, Brian Anderson, Greg
    Fonder and Jeff Billing.
    
    
    
    
    
    The Alumni were also represented well by Bob Collins, who was
    right behind Billing, Rod Hinman and Dev Sinha.
    
    
    
    
    
    The Engineers showed the ability to stick to their plan, exercise
    patience and stay in their groups. 
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, MIT travels to Troy, NY to compete against RPI and WPI
    for the Engineer's Cup at 1:45 at Saratoga Springs Park.
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **TECH SUFFERS FIRST LOSS OF
    SEASON**
    
    
    
    **Poor Focus Shows Under Hot Conditions in
    Codfish Bowl**
    
    
    
    
    
    September 22, 2001
    
    
    
    
    
    Dan Feldman led the MIT Engineers to the Codfish Bowl
    Championship, which goes to the top Division III team, but his
    winning effort was not enough to win the overall title, which went to
    UMass/Lowell (51 points). The hot and humid conditions on the wet
    course was cause for slow times and in some cases made it difficult
    to focus well enough to race well. 
    
    
    
    
    
    Sean Montgomery, Craig Wildman, Jeff Billing and Greg Fonder were
    resting minor injuries, which meant the pressure was on some other
    MIT runners to step up and fill the void. MIT has demonstrated a
    strong top 3 with Feldman, Sean Nolan and Montgomery getting the job
    done. The gap between number 3 and 4 has been about :50, which is too
    much for a nationally ranked team. The goal for this race was to
    close the overall delta between runners 1-5 to within 1:00. Without
    Montgomery running, it was hoped George Hanson, Brian Anderson and
    Carlos Renjifo would be able to make a dent in closing down the
    delta.
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT got a good start in the 17 team field, showcasing 180 of New
    England's Division II and III runners but was behind UMass/Lowell.
    UML went out to the front of the pack with one large group in the top
    10 and another large group back around 30th. Feldman went out to the
    lead by the mile mark in a quick 4:54. Nolan and Ben Schmeckpeper
    followed closely in 4:57 with Liu, Hanson and Anderson following at
    5:05. Both Nolan and Liu's group went out a few seconds too fast,
    particularly with the conditions being what they were.
    
    
    
    
    
    Going into mile two, Feldman was closely following a runner from
    UMass/Lowell.  Nolan had moved up to 4th position and was not
    satisfied. Liu had caught up to a fading Schmeckpeper and was moving
    on the rest of the field. Hanson and Anderson were also starting to
    fade, but Renjifo was making a strong effort to close the gap and
    help out with the scoring. 
    
    
    
    
    
    By mile three, it was obvious that Feldman and Nolan would finish
    1-2, but even with UMass/Lowell fading, it seemed MIT's #4 and $5
    runners were fading worse and would not help enough to catch UML. At
    the fourth mile, Feldman and Nolan had a comfortable lead over the
    rest of the field. Liu had moved to the top 15 and was still closing.
    Schmeckpeper had lost another :18 to Liu and Renjifo passed Hanson to
    move into 5th for Tech another :29 back. Trinity College, themselves
    missing a couple of runners, were packing 4-5 runners between MIT's
    3rd and 4th men. UML had the race locked up with 3 runners between
    Nolan and Liu, and 2 more closely behind Liu.
    
    
    
    
    
    The finish was about the same as few gained any ground. Feldman
    finished with a 25:23, :09 faster than Nolan. Liu, normally Tech's #5
    runner, did his job well, closing the delta to 1:05, but with
    Montgomery out and Schmeckpeper having a bad day and going out a
    little too quickly, it was not enough to win the meet.
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, MIT travels to Augustana College in Rock Island,
    Illinois to race in the National Championship Preview Meet.
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **HARRIERS CRUISE TO VICTORY IN ENGINEER'S
    CUP**
    
    
    
    September 8, 2001
    
    
    
    
    
    The MIT Men's Cross Country team traveled to Saratoga Springs
    State Park, the home course of Rensselaer, for the annual Engineer's
    Cup. MIT ran out to an early lead and never looked back despite going
    out a little too fast for the 80 degree conditions. Providing enough
    depth to compensate for starting too quickly, MIT finished with a
    winning score of 20 to 49 for RPI and 66 to WPI.
    
    
    
    
    
    Both WPI and RPI returned 4 of their top 5 runners from last year.
    With MIT losing 3 of their top 7 to graduation it did not seem likely
    they would be able to duplicate their sweep of the top 5 places last
    year. The MIT team planned on running in groups and doing most of
    their work on the hilly course in the final 2 miles of the course.
    Unfortunately, Dan Feldman, who was feeling ill the latter part of
    the week, decided to run the way he felt instead of listening to his
    body. Dan ran 5:12 for the first mile and paid for his effort,
    dropping off to 5:47 for the difficult 3rd mile although he finished
    2nd overall in the race. Sean Montgomery, reacting to last weeks
    great race, also went out a bit too ambitiously, running 10:36 for
    the first 2 miles and then 11:38 for the next 2 miles. This broke the
    integrity of their group, forcing each to run his own race. Sean was
    able to finish strong to hold onto 3rd place, giving MIT a 1-2-3
    finish. Fortunately, Sean Nolan, who finished 1st, and Craig Wildman,
    who finished 6th, ran superb races, deviating less than 30 seconds
    for mile splits. Finishing out the scoring for MIT was Albert Liu,
    who felt tired from the beginning of the race. Albert slowed after 2
    miles but held on well enough to finish 8th overall.
    
    
    
    
    
    Also running strong races for MIT were George Hanson (9th), Brian
    Anderson (11th), Jeff Billing (14th), Ian Driver (17th), Carlos
    Renjifo (18th) despite a wrong turn in the final mile which cost him
    about 45 seconds and Alan Raphael (20).
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, MIT travels to UMass Dartmouth to run an Invitational
    against some of the best Division III schools in New England.
    
    
    
    
    
    RESULTS
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MIT HARRIERS FADE TO 20TH PLACE AT
    NATIONALS**
    
    
    
    **Feldman Leads Team With 4th Place
    Effort**
    
    
    
    
    
    November 17, 2001
    
    
    
    
    
    Dan Feldman capped a great MIT cross country career with an
    outstanding effort at the NCAA Division III National Cross Country
    Championships held at Highland Springs Golf Course by host Augustana
    College. Dan ran a near perfect race to finish 4th in a time of 24:23
    on an unseasonably warm day that saw temperatures near 70 degrees.
    Dan's time was the best of his career and earned him his first All
    America award.
    
    
    
    
    
    The remainder of the MIT team did not fair so well. Starting off
    in reasonable position at the first mile, they never moved through
    the crowd, which has been their trademark and served them so well
    this season. While Dan came through the mile in 4:45 as he was just
    off the lead pack, MIT 2 through 6 runners were all positioned
    between 4:50 and 4:55, putting them between 60th and 120th--not
    great, but certainly not too bad.
    
    
    
    
    
    A little into the 3rd mile, Sean Nolan had moved into the top 30
    the way he usually does, Albert Liu, Sean Montgomery, Ben
    Schmeckpeper and Mark Strauss fell back to between 140th and 180th,
    and the race to place among the top 10 teams was essentially over for
    MIT. While Feldman forged ahead during the 4th mile, running a 5:01
    mile, Nolan dropped :20 and faded over 20 places.
    
    
    
    
    
    The last mile, which should be the fastest mile given that it
    finished downhill and well below the elevation of the 4 mile mark,
    was not the case for most of the engineers. Feldman ran a 4:39 final
    mile but the best the other Engineers could muster was a 5:02 by All
    America 800 runner, Sean Montgomery.
    
    
    
    
    
    The normal delta for MIT's top 5 has consistently been within 1:15
    at the end of this season. The normal deltas per man would have
    placed the team 4th - 5th in the team competition. In part, this was
    due to the extraordinary run by Feldman, but nevertheless, it did not
    seem as though the mental effort was there by the remainder of the
    team.
    
    
    
    
    
    Coach Halston Taylor expressed how proud he was of his team for a
    very successful season. "We had a great year, winning the UMass
    Dartmouth Invitational, the NEWMAC Championship and placing 3rd in
    the New England Division III Championship were great displays of what
    this team can do. Today is what can happen when runners think too
    much during a race and doubts enter their mind--both are like viruses
    to a runner and will overwhelm anyone."
    
    
    
    
    
    New England will lose a formula team, dropping the region to 4, in
    next year's qualifying race due to MIT and Tufts finishing out of the
    top 16 teams. The reduction of one team combined with MIT losing 3 of
    their top 7 runners will make it very difficult for the Engineers to
    return to nationals next year. However, Tech lost 3 of their top 7
    runners last year and no one thought they would make if as far as
    they did this year. We'll see.
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **HARRIERS ADVANCE TO NATIONALS**
    
    
    
    **3rd Place Finish in New England Division III
    Championship Advances Team**
    
    
    
    
    
    November 17, 2001
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT's Men's Cross Country team placed 3rd among a 32 team field in
    the New England Division III Championship/NCAA Region I Qualifier to
    advance to next week's NCAA Division III National Championship being
    hosted by Augustana College in Rock Island, Illinois. After last
    year's debacle, where MIT was considered the best team in the country
    not to go to nationals, the team felt they had something to prove all
    season. Led by Sean Nolan, who placed fourth in 25:08, and Dan
    Feldman, 6th in 25:12, the Engineers scored 106 points behind 54 for
    the victorious Keene State team and 83 for Bowdoin College. 
    
    
    
    
    
    The national formula for determining how many teams qualify out of
    each of the eight regions, has New England sending five teams, the
    maximum for any region. Last year, New England was also permitted
    five teams, and MIT, thought to have a spot clinched, had to run
    without one of its top runners and had poor races from the more
    senior runners on the team. This ultimately caused them to miss the
    trip to nationals by seven points as they finished sixth. 
    
    
    
    
    
    This year, there were six good teams who had a strong chance of
    being among the five to advance. MIT did not concern themselves with
    this proposition, but instead concentrated on trying to win the race.
    Ranked 4th in the region, the Engineers nevertheless thought if they
    could continue to improve as they had been doing all season, they
    would have a chance.
    
    
    
    
    
    The goal was to go out a bit slow at the start, but to be in good
    position at the mile mark. The team definitely erred on the side of
    caution as they left the line with an extremely slow start for all
    but Feldman. By the mile mark, Dan was with the leaders in a fast
    4:40 for the flat first loop. Sean Nolan was :08 back in 30th or so
    and Sean Montgomery, Albert Liu, Ben Schmeckpeper and Brian Anderson
    were another :06 behind in about 60th place. Mark Strauss, bothered
    by a cold, was even more cautious in 5:04, putting him behind over
    100 runners.
    
    
    
    
    
    By mile 2, Feldman was in 2nd place, behind eventual winner, Mark
    Miller of Keene State, who was beginning to pull away. Nolan had
    closed the gap by :01, which moved him up about 10 places as some
    began to fade. Montgomery, Liu, Schmeckpeper and Anderson lost
    another :08-:10 but also moved up a few spots. Strauss was now
    running the same place as Montgomery et al.
    
    
    
    
    
    Miles 3 and 4 were back along a winding, narrow dirt road that
    took the runners on an out and back loop. Feldman began to fatigue,
    and Nolan moved up to 2nd place. Montgomery was beginning to separate
    from Liu, but both were moving up through the field. Schmeckpeper had
    a lapse during the 4th mile, which caused him to lose ground to his
    teammates but held him steady in the race. Strauss was gaining on
    Schmeckpeper to look to add some help, but Anderson was falling back
    a bit.
    
    
    
    
    
    In the final mile, three runners surprised Nolan and passed him
    with over a half mile to go. However, Sean did not give up as he
    passed one of them back to finish 4th. Dan held onto 6th, finishing
    strong, despite going out so quickly. Montgomery had the best finish
    with a 4:40 final mile to move up to 19th. Albert ran a great race,
    finishing 33rd overall and only :57 behind Nolan. Ben regained focus
    and finished strong to place 44th, only 1:11 behind Nolan. Mark
    closed to with 3 places of Ben to provide the support the team
    needed. Brian finished in 79th close out the team's scoring.
    
    
    
    
    
    Coach Halston Taylor felt his team was a little too cautious at
    the start, which cost them some places in the end. Nevertheless, he
    feels the team ran their best race of the year thus far, particularly
    Sean Nolan and Albert Liu.
    
    
    
    
    
    While the team did not reach their lofty goal, they did reach
    their beginning of the season goal, which was to advance to
    nationals. However, the year is not over, as the Tech harriers have
    yet to run their best race, which they hope will put them among the
    top 10 teams at next weekends championship.
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCES OVERSHADOW TEAM
    OUTING IN NEW ENGLAND CHAMPIONSHIP**
    
    
    
    October 12, 2001
    
    
    
    
    
    Maybe it was taking a week off from racing after competing for
    five consecutive weekends, or perhaps the fact that most had a class
    earlier in the morning or maybe it was just a lack of proper mental
    preparation. Whatever it was, MIT's men's cross country team did not
    do as well as expected. However, Dan Feldman and Sean Nolan ran good
    races given the 75 degree temperatures and the suffocating dirt
    stirred up by the runners on the extremely dry course.
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT placed 12th out of 42 schools, placing 3rd amond Division III
    schools in the NEIAAA Championship, otherwise known as the All New
    England Championship. Ranked 15th in the country among Division III
    schools before race time and 4th in New England, MIT did slightly
    better than expected by their opposing teams, but not as well as they
    would have liked. A normal delta of 1:30 for runners 1-5, Tech could
    do no better than 2:13, causing them to lose approximately 50 points
    by that factor alone.
    
    
    
    
    
    Feldman got pulled out to an early quick pace of 4:41 for the 1st
    mile, but was wise enough to stay well behind the leaders, who went
    out in 4:24. Nolan, possibly intuitively expecting the heat to have
    some effect, went out a little slower than planned, coming through in
    4:56. The rest of the top 5 came through in the planned 5:00.
    
    
    
    
    
    By mile 2, Dan had moved up to 12th and was looking strong. The
    entire front group had slowed down considerably, letting most of the
    pack back into the race. Dan, catching up with the leaders, did not
    run as he planned, but slowed to their pace once catching them,
    possibly hurting his overall place. Nolan continued to move up as he
    ran his plan perfectly. Sean Montgomery, Albert Liu, Brian Anderson
    and Ben Schmeckpeper slowed down too much in the 2nd mile, possibly
    being lulled into thinking they were still running fast due to how
    quickly everyone in front was slowing down. By mile two, there was
    already a 40 second delta.
    
    
    
    
    
    Mile three continued to be good ones for Feldman and Nolan and too
    slow for the rest of MIT's runners. With the delta now up to one
    minute it was obvious the team score would not be very good. 
    
    
    
    
    
    Feldman moved up to 7th by the four mile marker, but got outkicked
    by two Harvard runners in the final 400 meters to finish a very
    respectable 9th, the top Division III runner. Nolan continued to pass
    people, finishing with a 4:52 final mile to move up to 32nd place.
    Montgomery, who had not raced for a month due to a leg injury, had
    lost focus during the 4th mile, but finished strong to finish 94th,
    1:37 behind Feldman. Usually, Montgomery is within 40 seconds of Dan,
    so there is hope he will get it together again by the end of the
    season. Liu finished :01 behind Montgomery, but that was enough for
    three opposing runners to squeeze in between them to put Liu back in
    98th place. Anderson stepped up to replace a hurting Schmeckpeper,
    but was nevertheless over 2:00 back of Feldman.
    
    
    
    
    
    With all their woes, MIT was still able to finish ahead of Keene
    State (14th) and Williams College (15th). Coach Halston Taylor
    indicated his team had a lot of work to do to get to where they need
    to be in four weeks. Their next meet is the NEWMAC conference
    championship at Franklin Park on October 27th at 2:45. Both Coast
    Guard Academy and WPI promise to give the Engineers some worries if
    they cannot put a better team effort together.
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MIT MEN RUN TO FOURTH CONSECUTIVE VICTORY
    IN NEWMAC CHAMPIONSHIP**
    
    
    
    **Feldman, Nolan and Montgomery Lead the Way With
    1-2-3 Finish**
    
    
    
    
    
    October 27, 2001
    
    
    
    
    
    For the fourth consecutive year, MIT's men's cross country team
    ran to victory in the fourth annual NEWMAC Championship with Dan
    Feldman, Sean Nolan and Sean Montgomery leading the Engineers low
    score of 23 points with their 1-2-3 finish. Also for the fourth year
    in succession, Coast Guard ran a strong race to finish second with 68
    points. Springfield College rallied to finish third with 92 points
    and was followed by WPI (104), Wheaton (111), Babson (112) and Clark
    (225). The cool 50 degree temperatures produced good times in spite
    of the relatively strong winds as all 17 MIT runners ran season bests
    at Franklin Park and 13 of those were all time bests at their home
    course.
    
    
    
    
    
    As usual, the pack started out fast with MIT running comfortably
    but certainly not in the lead. By the 2 mile mark that had all
    changed as Sean Nolan joined Dan Feldman at the lead of the race and
    Sean Montgomery had moved up to 6th. Albert Liu was back around 12th
    and Mark Strauss, who was running conservatively as he makes his
    comeback from a year long injury, was back in about 20th with Brian
    Anderson. Ben Schmeckpeper, the NEWMAC rookie of the year, was steady
    in about 15th place.
    
    
    
    
    
    Between miles 3 and 4, Feldman and Nolan widened their lead to 30
    seconds and Montgomery moved up to 3rd. Liu moved up to 8th and
    Strauss was moving fast through the pack, approaching the top 10. In
    the final mile, Montgomery finished with a 4:46 mile to keep pace
    with Feldman and Nolan. Strauss ran a 4:52 to close ground on Liu and
    finish right behind him in 9th place to round out MIT's scoring.
    Schmeckpeper added support with an 11th place finish with Anderson
    finishing in 21st position to bump back all opposing team's score.
    The top six Tech runners earned All Conference honors by virtue of
    finishing within the top 12.
    
    
    
    
    
    This is the first race in quite some time that MIT has had 2
    runners under 25:00 and 2 more under 26:00. With all the success of
    the top 7 runners, it was the amazing PRs by the remaining Tech
    runners that highlited the race. Ian Driver not only broke 28:00 for
    the first time at Franklin Park but ended his freshman year with a
    27:24. Yuval Mazor, who had just broken 29:00 two weeks before,
    nearly broke into the 27s with a 28:00--not bad for a 400 runner.
    Alan Raphael has to be the most improved, suddenly realizing this
    year that he could run cross country well. Alan broke 28:00 for the
    first time at Franlin Park, finishing with a 27:26 performance.
    
    
    
    
    
    In two weeks, the Engineers head to Westfield State to challenge
    other Division III teams for the New England Division III
    Championship and the right to represent New England at the National
    Championships the following week at Augustana College.
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **ENGINEERS PLACE 7TH IN NATIONAL
    PREVIEW**
    
    
    
    **Despite Montgomery's Absence, MIT Runs
    Well**
    
    
    
    
    
    September 28, 2001
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT's Men's Cross Country team placed 7th out of 32 teams at the
    National Preview Invitational held at Augustana College's Highland
    Springs Golf Course. Despite leaving a healing Sean Montgomery at
    home, the Engineers, led by a near and deserving victory by Dan
    Feldman, ran a strong race against 8 other nationally ranked
    teams.
    
    
    
    
    
    Under clear skies and 70 degree temperatures, the 436 man field
    wasted little time getting out to a quick pace on the rolling hill
    course. The first mile went out in 4:50 and Feldman was right in
    front with a number of other runners. The large field probably caused
    MIT runners to get out a little too quickly, which was evident by the
    19 second delta at the first mile.
    
    
    
    
    
    The second mile broke the lead group up considerably, as a lead
    group of three separated themselves from the rest of the pack.
    Feldman was in this group and looked fresh as they came through the
    hilly mile in 9:47. Sean Nolan fell 15 seconds back, Ben Schmeckpeper
    could not hang with Nolan and Albert Liu showed running a
    conservative first mile was a good idea as he negative split the
    second mile, coming through in 10:18. Brian Anderson, trying to fill
    Montgomery's shoes, was already paying for his 5:04 first mile as he
    slowed to a 5:25 second mile.
    
    
    
    
    
    The third mile was relatively flat, which allowed the runners to
    recover before repeating the loop to encounter another hilly mile in
    mile four. Feldman began to pull away at the start of the 5th mile
    after coming through four in 19:52. Nolan had kept pace in 20:23, but
    made up a lot of places as he moved into the top 20. Liu had passed
    Schmeckpeper but they were close to each other at 21:00 and 21:04
    respectively. Anderson had faded to fall behind Craig Wildman and
    back to Carlos Renjifo.
    
    
    
    
    
    The last mile is somewhat downhill, thus fairly quick if the
    runners have anything left. Feldman had plenty  left, which he proved
    by increasing his lead, until he took a wrong turn with a half mile
    to go, on a very well marked turn he was not supposed to take. By the
    time he turned around, he had lost about 25 seconds, and the race.
    Dan defeated the only other runner who made the incorrect turn by 8
    seconds and they had both pulled away from the eventual winner from
    North Central College. Nolan finished with a 4:55 to move up to 14th
    place. Liu ran a very consistent pace all through the course and
    finished 52nd overall. Schmeckpeper finished in 63rd, and Anderson
    followed in 100th after a strong 5th mile.
    
    
    
    
    
    North Central won with 87 points, followed by 90 for Calvin
    College. After that there were 8 teams within 47 points. MIT finished
    in 7th with 235 points, 34 out of 3rd place. Montgomery's presence
    would have probably knocked 60-70 points off of Tech's score, which
    would have placed them a solid 3rd.
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT has a lot of work to do if they wish to return to Augustana in
    November for the National Championship. They show the 1-2 punch with
    Feldman and Nolan and have the consistency of Liu about 1:00 back. If
    Montgomery can get, and stay healthy, and Schmeckpeper can run with
    or ahead of Liu, the Engineers should be back to represent New
    England.
    
    
    
    
    
    After taking next weekend off, MIT will race in the All Division
    New England Championship at Franklin Park on 10/12.
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    



    
    
    
    **MIT FINISHES 1ST IN 26 TEAM FIELD AT
    UMASS/DARTMOUTH INVITATIONAL**
    
    
    
    September 15, 2001
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT went into the UMass/Dartmouth Invitational suspecting the poll
    ranking them 12th in the nation among Division III schools was a bit
    inflated. Not having proved that they have sufficient depth beyond
    the first five runners, nor that they had a delta low enough to beat
    the good teams, the Engineers wanted to see how good they really
    were.
    
    
    
    
    
    They found out they were pretty good, displaying good team running
    as they finished with 60 points to Tufts 62 and 73 for Trinity
    College. Conn. College was 4th with 117 points.
    
    
    
    
    
    The Jumbos from Tufts University, ranked 6th in the country were
    the pre-race favorites. Connecticut College, returning their complete
    top seven from last year, including two national qualifiers, went out
    as a pack in the first mile. Running a more conservative race, with
    the exception of Dan Feldman, who was with the leaders with a 4:53
    first mile, was MIT.  Sean Montgomery and Sean Nolan, coming through
    the mile in 5:03, were in about 40th position and were followed by
    Ben Schmeckpeper, Albert Liu and Craig Wildman in 5:07, moving up
    from their 60th position. 
    
    
    
    
    
    By mile two, Tech had moved up considerably, with Feldman having
    opened up a 50 meter lead. Nolan and Montgomery were now in the top
    10 and the second group of MIT runners were in about 45th position.
    Brian Anderson had moved up in the top 80 and looked good.
    
    
    
    
    
    Throughout the next two miles, MIT continued to establish their
    position. Feldman was now joined by Nolan for a 1-2 lead with
    Montgomery holding on at 6th position. Nolan had run a 4:44 4th mile
    and Feldman a 4:46. Schmeckpeper and Liu had reached the top 30 but
    seemed unable to move up any further. Wildman began to fade a little,
    but Anderson was still moving.
    
    
    
    
    
    The last mile showed little change among the top runners. Feldman
    won with a 24:43 and Nolan finished 2nd with a 24:58. Montgomery
    closed well and finished with a 6th place finish in 25:15.
    Schmeckpeper and Liu dueled in the final straight with Schmeckpeper
    prevailing. Both had the time of 26:04 as they finished 25th and 26th
    respectively. Anderson ran a 4:57 final mile to pass many opposing
    runners and finish in 28th with a 26:08. 
    
    
    
    
    
    Both Tufts and Trinity College packed in runners between
    Montgomery and Schmeckpeper, making the final score too close for
    comfort. MIT had a 1:21 delta between runners 1-5 and 1:32 between
    1-7, a significant improvement over the race two weeks ago. 
    
    
    
    
    
    In the second men's race, Bates College, thinking the varsity race
    was the second one on the schedule, had run their second team in the
    varsity race. Now, in the second race, their varsity was in an
    overwhelming lead. Justin Easter, who would have given Feldman a good
    race, won by over a minute. Running a superb race for MIT was
    freshman Greg Fonder who ran a 26:30 while placing 5th. With the
    exception of Bates' 1st team, MIT dominated the second race with 50
    points.
    
    
    
    
    
    MIT had 14 of their 16 runners produce all-time personal bests.
    The Engineers may not be good enough yet to be ranked 12th in the
    country, but they are close and getting closer. 
    
    
    
    
    
    Next week, MIT heads back to Franklin Park to race in the Codfish
    Bowl.
    
    
    
    RETURN TO CROSS COUNTRY
    
    
    


