



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **DISTANCE RUNNERS SHINE IN LOSING EFFORT**
    
    
      
    
    April 3, 2004
    
    
      
    
    The times have changed in the track and field scene at MIT but 
        it is nice to know that at least some things stay the same. Already suffering 
        their second loss of the season after going two years without a loss, MIT 
        is trying to come to grips with having so few bodies in the field events. 
        However, the distance runners, silent most of the year, made themselves heard 
        loud and clear in Troy, NY on Saturday.
    
    
      
    
    MIT lost by the largest amount in recent history to a strong 
        and well balanced RPI team by a score of 225.5 to 122.5, even though they 
        did beat WPI with a score of 55 points. The potential scoring per event was 
        22 points with a point distribution of 7-5-4-3-2-1 for places 1-6. The eight 
        field events only accumulated 27.5 points for MIT and Uzoma Orji garnered 
        17 of them. Orji saved his best effort for last with a new MIT outdoor record 
        of 56-1. The only other win in the field events for MIT came from Nate Ball 
        who cleared 14-11 to claim the pole vault.
    
    
      
    
    By contrast, in the four events that comprise the 800-5000 meters, 
        MIT took 58 points from the other engineering schools. Without Brian Anderson, 
        who is still recovering from his glute/hamstring injury from the indoor season, 
        MIT won the 1500, 3000SC and 5000 meter runs. In the 1500, John Brewer led 
        a 1-2-3 sweep with a well run 4:07.85 effort. Fivos Constantinou followed 
        closely with a 4:09.82 and Carlos Renjifo closed strongly to finish in 4:10.75. 
        In the steeplechase, Ben Schmeckpeper took the lead at the gun and never looked 
        back. Schmeckpeper ran 9:37.89 despite stuttering before most of the barriers, 
        causing him to lose a lot of time. Rookies Chris Fidkowski, Robby Bryant and 
        Kevin DiGenova placed third, fifth and sixth with times of 10:15.49, 10:29.66 
        and 10:57.44 respectively. The 5000 offered another MIT sweep as Eric Khatchadourian 
        put together the race he has sought all year, running a huge personal best 
        of 15:45.69. Running with Khatchadourian for the two miles, Kevin Brulois 
        also ran a personal best of 15:52.26 for second place. Ian Driver also put 
        together his best race of the year with a third place 16:07.91.
    
    
      
    
    The 800 did not provide an MIT victory, but the 1500 runners 
        and Schmeckpeper returned to claim 2-3-5-6. Renjifo led the way with a PR 
        of 2:00.20 and was followed by Brewer with another PR of 2:01.03. Schmeckpeper 
        kicked by Constantinou in 2:03.07 for his year's best 800.
    
    
      
    
    The only other victory for MIT came in the 200 when Zach Traina 
        won his specialty in 22.73. The sprinters held their own by claiming second 
        in the 400 relay with a time of 43.78 and by claiming third, fifth and sixth 
        in the 100.
    
    
      
    
    If Tom Hoover, Nestor Hernandez and Anderson return some of 
        the holes for MIT should be filled in nicely. MIT is at home next Saturday 
        with an 11:00 start against Bowdoin, UMass Lowell and Tufts.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO OUTDOOR
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    MIT EARNS THREE VICTORIES AT HUSKY INVITATIONAL
    
    
      
    
    April 17, 2004
    
    
      
    
    MIT Men's Track and Field team enjoyed their first good weather 
        since they were on their spring trip in Florida and wasted little time taking 
        advantage of it Nate Ball, Eric Khatchadourian and Uzoma Orji claimed victories 
        at the Northeastern University Solomon Husky Invitational on a sunny seventy 
        degree day.
    
    
      
    
    Khatchadourian and Kevin Brulois started the meet off with the 
        10,000 meters. Both were just hoping to qualify for the New England Division 
        III Championships in two weeks. However, both ran excellent races for their 
        10K debuts. Khatchadourian pulled away from Brulois after 4 1/2 miles, running 
        5:05 for the final mile, finishing with a time of 32:24.63. Brulois fell back 
        a bit but still held on for second place in 32:55.21.
    
    
      
    
    Nate Ball cleared 15-6 1/4 and narrowly missed 15-10 1/4 to 
        win the pole vault. Supporting Ball were teammates Josh Chartier and Nestor 
        Hernandez, tying for sixth place at 13-3 1/2. Hernandez returned from his 
        hamstring injury last week in the vault, but this week added the long jump, 
        leaping 20-3 3/4 on a limited approach
    
    
      
    
    Uzoma Orji had a pretty good day in the throwing events as he 
        faced his best competition of the season. Orji began the day with the hammer 
        throw. Orji threw 166-9 to claim fourth place overall and first among college 
        participants. In the discus throw, Orji threw 145-10 despite a tailwind to 
        claim second place. Finally, Orji threw in his specialty. Despite four hours 
        of throwing, Orji still managed to throw 53-7 1/2 to win the event as he worked 
        on a flaw in his technique. Orji's distance may suffer in the short term while 
        he works on his right foot pivot and leg drive, but the long term gains should 
        make the change worthwhile.
    
    
      
    
    Brian Anderson made his outdoor season debut as he attempts 
        to comeback for a hamstring injury that hampered him at the end of the indoor 
        season. Running the 800, Anderson took the lead after 250 meters and kept 
        it as he pulled away to a 1:58.92 effort in the second section of the event.
    
    
      
    
    Another debut was turned in by Makinde Adeagbo in the triple 
        jump. Adeagbo missed the entire indoor season as he strengthened his quadriceps 
        to rehabilitate a knee injury he had from high school. Without having jumped 
        in a year, Adeagbo struggled to find his form, but managed 40-7.
    
    
      
    
    Not enjoying the tailwind they had last week, the sprinters 
        nevertheless held their own. Zach Traina led the way with times of 11.16 in 
        the 100 and 22.18 in the 200 to place fifth and second respectively. Traina, 
        along with Marcus Carson, Jonathan Hsieh and David Blau teamed up to run 43.57 
        and place second in the 400 relay.
    
    
      
    
    In addition to the 10K runners, the steeplechase and 5000 runners 
        put forth their own personal bests. Carlos Renjifo led the way for personal 
        bests for the 3000 steeplechase with his 9:56.36. Freshman, Robby Bryant, 
        continued to knock about 10 seconds off per week, running 10:03.89. Kevin 
        DiGenova, another freshman, dropped over 20 second from his time, finishing 
        in 10:32.13. Chris Fidkowski ran the 5000 for the first time, breaking 16:00 
        with his 15:56.22. Fidkowski finished with a 33 final 200, indicating he had 
        more left than he should have.
    
    
      
    
    Many others had personal bests as MIT prepares for next week's 
        NEWMAC Conference championship at Springfield College. In the high hurdles, 
        Thad Wozniak and Marcus Carson both had PRs, running 16.44 and 16.59 respectively. 
        Jesse Collins ran a well paced 400 and set a personal best in the process 
        of 51.37. Steve Kannan turned in his own personal best with a 61.18 in the 
        400IH.
    
    
      
    
    Next Saturday, MIT hopes to defend its title in the NEWMAC championship 
        despite the extreme lack of depth in the throws, jumps and hurdles.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO OUTDOOR
    
    
      
    
     
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **STEEPLERS RUN WELL, BALL AND ORJI CLAIM VICTORIES**
    
    
      
    
    May 22, 2004
    
    
      
    
    MIT was privileged to host one of the few last chance qualifiers 
        approved by the NCAA but somehow the weather man did not get the message it 
        was supposed to be a nice, spring-like day. Although the promise of rain never 
        came to fruition, it was chilly and not conducive for national level performances 
        except in the 10K and only two participants appeared in that event.
    
    
      
    
    The NCAA, in hopes of keeping potential national qualifiers 
        from entering competitions where the meet management does not follow NCAA 
        guidelines, instituted a rule that on the final weekend prior to the national 
        championship, an athlete could only qualify by entering a sanctioned last 
        chance qualifier. MIT was selected to be the host site for the northeast region. 
        The meet was open to all participants, both collegiate and open. In all, nearly 
        300 athletes competed in the full slate of events.
    
    
      
    
    MIT only entered seven athletes, two of whom had already qualified 
        for nationals and five who thought they might have a chance. Ben Schmeckpeper 
        led Chris Fidkowski and Carlos Renjifo in the quest of running a national 
        qualifying time in the 3000 meter steeplechase. Schmeckpeper was hoping to 
        put together a perfect race and Fidkowski and Renjifo were hoping to continue 
        to improve at the 10 second per race clip they had been doing lately. All 
        three raced well but none were able to improve on their times. Schmeckpeper, 
        who ran 9:31.15, would have run a personal best but did a face plant in the 
        water pit on the last lap when he slipped off the water barrier.
    
    
      
    
    Brian Anderson, still mounting his comeback from hamstring / 
        glute injury, made a valiant effort in the 800. Not able to train properly 
        due to the restrictions placed on him by his healing muscles, Anderson hoped 
        for an evenly paced race. However, his first lap in 54 seconds was a little 
        too fast and Anderson's final 200 showed the fatigue he was feeling, finishing 
        in 1:55.79.
    
    
      
    
    Zach Traina, within a tenth of a second of qualifying in the 
        200 meters, was hoping for a nice tailwind. What he got was cool temperatures 
        and virtually no wind at all. The results brought him a slow time of 22.36, 
        which was not helped by a relatively slow start. Traina's technique was very 
        good said Coach Halston Taylor, but the conditions just were not conducive 
        for fast times.
    
    
      
    
    Uzoma Orji did not get the results he wanted in the hammer throw, 
        fouling out with a combination of sector and foot fouls. However, he won the 
        shot put with an effort of 55-7 despite a slow start.
    
    
      
    
    Nate Ball, not only won the pole vault, he set a personal best 
        en route with a final clearance of 15-10 1/2. Ball made his height on his 
        final attempt at that height. His attempts at 16-0 were not really close but 
        he knows he will need to clear that height at nationals if he wants to guarantee 
        himself All America honors.
    
    
      
    
    Next week, the Engineers head to Millikin University for the 
        NCAA Division III Championship. MIT will be represented by Ball in the pole 
        vault and Orji in the hammer and shot put.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO OUTDOOR
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **ORJI SETS VARSITY RECORD WITH ALL AMERICA PERFORMANCE 
        IN SHOT PUT**
    
    
      
    
    May 29, 2004
    
    
      
    
    By Todd Chamoy (assistant coach)
    
    
      
    
    MIT sent a small contigent of athletes to compete at the NCAA 
        Division III Outdoor Championships last weekend. Uzoma Orji had qualified 
        for the hammer throw and shot put, while Nate Ball had qualified for the pole 
        vault.
    
    
      
    
    Seeded 15th of 15 athletes in the strongest field ever in the 
        hammer, Uzoma had nowhere to go but up. For the first time ever, the flights 
        were seeded with the bottom half of the athletes in the first flight and the 
        top half in the second flight. This would mean Uzoma would be throwing right 
        away, then waiting to see how the second flight turned out to determine his 
        place.
    
    
      
    
    He opened with a safe throw around 165', which we knew would 
        not be good enough to make the finals. On his second attempt, he started off 
        in good position, but did not counter sufficiently as he picked up speed, 
        so the hammer pulled him over and he hit the circle with the ball and fouled 
        the throw. On his third attempt, he put together a solid, but painfully slow 
        three turns to throw 171'9", leaving him in fourth place in his flight.
    
    
      
    
    Considering there were eight athletes yet to throw who all had 
        qualifying marks over 180', with only nine athletes making the final, we were 
        not optimistic. We watched the second flight in anguish, almost hoping the 
        other throwers would just put us out of our misery, but in an improbable turn 
        of events, two of the athletes in the second flight tied Uzoma's mark of 171'9", 
        and part way through the third round, the three throwers remained tied for 
        9th place. Unfortunately, the struggling thrower from Willamette came through 
        on his third throw to knock Uzoma, et al, down to 10th place and out of the 
        finals.
    
    
      
    
    Earlier in the day, Nate Ball began vaulting in his second national 
        championships, a meet which has not gone well for him in the past. His freshman 
        year, he qualified as the 16th of 16 in the field, then proceeded to no-height 
        for a disappointing end to an incredible season. His sophomore year, he qualified 
        again, but came down with mono late in the season and was forced to withdraw 
        from the meet. A series of injuries had kept him from qualifying for the indoor 
        national championships, so he entered this meet hoping to reverse an incredible 
        spell of bad luck.
    
    
      
    
    Nate's day started as well as possible, clearing 14'7" 
        and 15'1" on first attempts. After knocking the bar off on his first 
        jump at 15'7", he gathered himself for a great jump to clear the height 
        on his second attempt. Six athletes had cleared the height on their first 
        attempt, and Hans Schmidt, the national record holder, had yet to start jumping, 
        leaving Nate unofficially in eighth place. The coaching staff was supremely 
        confident that Nate would end up at worst in eighth, but we had discounted 
        a freshman from Wilmington who had miraculously scraped over 15'7 1/4" 
        on his third attempt. After most of the field, including Nate, missed at 16'1", 
        the freshman from Wilmington again miraculously scrapes over the bar, moving 
        him from 9th place to 3rd, and moving Nate from 8th place to 9th, assuming 
        the defending national champion does not no-height.  
    
        Hope was held out a little longer than it should have been, as Hans missed 
        his first attempt at 16'7". He barely cleared on his second attempt, 
        but a clear is a clear, and Nate was now officially ninth. Sadly, the single 
        miss at 15'7 1/4" cost Nate a tie for 4th, but after all the drama he 
        experienced in the last three years, we were all very happy with his performance.
    
    
      
    
    We returned to the track on Saturday for Uzoma's best event, 
        the shot put. After having won the meet by three feet indoors, we had high 
        hopes. We were not as confident this time around, as he was only seeded 4th, 
        and the previous weekend had nearly fouled out. Also, the top seed,Cody Brotherton 
        from McMurry, happened to be the defending outdoor champion. After sitting 
        through a weak first flight (the entire first flight would not have qualified 
        for last year's championships), Uzoma started his warm-up and showed that 
        today would be a big day. His stand throw hit around 53', farther than anyone 
        in the first flight had thrown, and his second full warm-up throw hit the 
        60' line, eliciting "oohs" and "aahs" from the crowd.
    
    
      
    
    On his first throw, Uzoma throws a casual 56'5" to take 
        a big lead, but Brotherton responds with a 57'4" on his first throw. 
        The second time through, Uzoma hits 58'10 1/4" to take an even bigger 
        lead, and Brotherton begins his traditional long string of fouls. As a spinner, 
        Brotherton is fairly inconsistent, but when he does hit one, it goes a long 
        way. Uzoma does not improve on his mark in the third round, but still throws 
        the second farthest throw of the competition so far with a 58'7". Meanwhile, 
        John Schuna, the third former national champion in the competition, had thrown 
        58'6" to move into second place.
    
    
      
    
    In the finals, Uzoma and Schuna continued to throw far but not 
        improve on their marks from the preliminaries, while Brotherton continues 
        to foul. Finally, at the end of the sixth and last round, when we can finally 
        start to taste the victory, Brotherton throws 59'1" to take the lead. 
        Schuna and Uzoma are unable to respond, and the day ends with Uzoma in second 
        place.
    
    
      
    
    Obviously we had hoped for victory, but considering he threw 
        a two foot season best, and he did not even qualify for last year's outdoor 
        nationals, we had to be satisfied with his performance. Uzoma will have his 
        work cut out for him in both the hammer and shot next year, as five of this 
        year's hammer All-Americans are returning, as well as Cody Brotherton on the 
        shot put.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO OUTDOOR
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **TECH TRACK PERFORMS WELL TO EARN THIRD PLACE IN NEW 
        ENGLAND DIVISION III CHAMPIONSHIP**
    
    
      
    
    May 1, 2004
    
    
      
    
    MIT's struggles during the regular season due to a lack of depth 
        were relieved last week with the NEWMAC Championship victory, but this week 
        they were put to rest as the Engineers took advantage of the few entries they 
        had and scored 68 points to place third in the New England Division III Championship 
        behind Williams College and Bates College.
    
    
      
    
    Thad Wozniak began the championship with the decathlon on Thursday. 
        Wozniak figured he should finish at least fifth and hoped to finish fourth. 
        After the first day's events (100, long jump, shot put, high jump and 400) 
        he was in third place with five great marks, two of them personal bests. His 
        100 was 11.47 and his 400 a perfectly run 51.73. The second day was not as 
        strong a day for Wozniak and one of the athletes he was ahead of was a strong 
        pole vaulter. Wozniak started the day with a 16.33 PR in the 110HH. He held 
        his own with a 90' discus throw but lost a lot of points in the pole vault, 
        only clearing 9' 3. Fortunately, the athlete just ahead of him performed even 
        worse in the vault, leaving him 161 points ahead of Wozniak. Now in fourth, 
        Wozniak came through with a javelin throw of 143-0, enough to move him into 
        third by 17 points. In the final event, the 1500, Wozniak was too far out 
        of second to try to make up the difference, so his goal was to be sure to 
        not let fourth place overtake him by more than one second and fifth place 
        not more than eight seconds. The plan was on the rocks at first as the fourth 
        place runner went out in 72 seconds. Fortunately, the pace slowed significantly 
        and he was able to achieve his goal and then some, scoring 5595 points for 
        third place, more than 1000 points over his previous mark from the year before.
    
    
      
    
    Saturday began with the 10K. An event where MIT was seeded first 
        and third, although some of the good entrants had not performed an all out 
        10K at that point. The hot weather (75 degrees) and sunny skies made some 
        cautious with the pace. Eric Khatchadourian, impatient with the slow pace, 
        ran the way he felt and took over the lead. After two miles it was obvious 
        that today would not be a good day for the MIT contingent in this event as 
        both Khatchadourian and Kevin Brulois began to fade just before three miles. 
        Khatchadourian held on for firth place but the four points were not what MIT 
        was hoping for.
    
    
      
    
    Just as the 10K was finishing, the hammer throw got underway. 
        Uzoma Orji, seeded second, did not have enough to get the job done on this 
        day. Orji had a good, consistent series but was unable to hit the big throw. 
        His 168-1 effort placed 5th. Right after the hammer, Orji stepped into the 
        discus ring and the snow ball kept rolling downhill. Although he looked good 
        in the warmups, Orji was unable to put it together in his actual throws. He 
        made the finals but was unable to place.
    
    
      
    
    On the track, Zach Traina ran the 100 and 200 trials back to 
        back and managed to make the finals in both events. He then stepped into the 
        lead off position in the 400 relay and blazed an opening leg to put MIT in 
        a strong second place coming out of the turn. Marcus Carson ran his strongest 
        leg of the season and held his position. Jonathan Hsieh grabbed the baton 
        with MIT fighting for second with three other teams but by the time the handoff 
        was made to David Blau, MIT had a solid hold on second place and Blau only 
        expanded that lead as they finished in a season best 43.13.
    
    
      
    
    In the 3000 steeplechase, MIT had four entries. Led by Ben Schmeckpeper, 
        Carlos Renjifo and Chris Fidkowski hoped to finish in the top eight, all scoring 
        points for Tech. Robby Bryant was also hoping to sneak into scoring position 
        but the experience at the championships for the freshmen was the most important 
        value to be gained for him on this day. The early pace was fast and Schmeckpeper 
        went out quickly in 72 seconds. Fidkowski and Renjifo were also out fast, 
        coming through in 74 seconds. Schmeckpeper slowed after a first mile in 4:58 
        but held on for a third place finish. Fidkowski, a rookie graduate student, 
        ran a 17 second PR, placing fourth in 9:42.02. Renjifo tired early in the 
        race and was unable to attack the leaders, finishing in seventh in a PR of 
        9:55.03, good for two key points.
    
    
      
    
    John Brewer, seeded 21st in the 1500, wanted to do his part 
        for the team as well. Running in the first of two sections, Brewer ran a poor 
        tactical race but made up for it with a lot of fortitude as he won his section 
        in a season best of 4:02.89. Unfortunately, his great effort just missed scoring 
        as he finished in ninth place overall.
    
    
      
    
    Next for MIT, Traina was back on the track in the 100. Not running 
        his best race, Traina caught people at the end and finished a very respectable 
        fourth place, good for five points. In his favorite event, the 200, Traina 
        ran a technically perfect race, placing a strong second in 21.87.
    
    
      
    
    There was no way Orji was going to do anything but win the shot 
        put. While he did not have his best effort, he nevertheless won with a fine 
        throw of 55-1 to keep MIT in the running for one of the three trophies.
    
    
      
    
    The final event for MIT was the pole vault. Williams had first 
        place in the meet locked up. Bates, Springfield College, MIT and Tufts University 
        were all battling for second place. With the vault and 1600 relay to go, MIT 
        had 58 points, Springfield had 57.5, Bates had 54 and Tufts 51. MIT had no 
        entry in the 1600 relay so they needed to do all their scoring in the vault. 
        Nestor Hernandez did his part by clearing a personal best 14-0 1/2 despite 
        a cramping hamstring, good enough to place 7th. The Tufts vaulter placed 5th 
        to move them up to 55 points. As the vault came down to the final two, Nate 
        Ball of MIT and Matt Ondra of Bates, the 1600 relay was starting. Williams 
        ran a very courageous anchor leg to just inch out Springfield and give them 
        65.5 points. Bates ran a superb relay to place third and move them to 60 points. 
        Tufts finished fifth, which gave them a final point total of 59 points. MIT 
        had a guarantee of second place in the vault and this would give them enough 
        points for third place overall. However, if Ball could pull out the victory 
        over the favored Bates vaulter, MIT would finish second. However, even though 
        Ball cleared 15-6 1/2, he missed at a PR attempt at 16' while the Bates vaulter 
        made it on his first attempt.
    
    
      
    
    MIT has certainly turned their season around. Next week, they 
        take their game to Northeastern University for the All New England Championship 
        on Friday and Saturday.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO OUTDOOR
    
    
      
    
     
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **ORJI'S POINTS AND DISTANCE RUNNER'S PR's LEAD THE 
        WAY**
    
    
      
    
    May 7-8, 2004
    
    
      
    
    The MIT men's track and field team continued their championship 
        ways at the New England Intercollegiate Amateur Athletics Association (NEICAAA) 
        annual outdoor track and field championship held at Northeastern University's 
        Dedham facility. Led by Uzoma Orji in the throwing events and the distance 
        runners in the 3000 steeplechase and 10K, MIT scored 19 points in a meet where 
        they were only trying to get some people qualified for nationals.
    
    
      
    
    Coach Halston Taylor made the decision early in the week not 
        to try to push those who did not have a chance to qualify for the NCAA Championship 
        later in the month, and let them focus on their academics. After two successive 
        brilliant team and individual efforts it was time to just focus on the few 
        who have a chance to move on in the championships or who really wanted to 
        finish with a better performance. This meant not entering Thad Wozniak in 
        the decathlon where he would have been seeded second and not having Orji throw 
        the discus where he was seeded fifth. The discus has not been going extremely 
        well for Orji and it has been taking away from his shot and hammer, so pursuing 
        the event just for points in this meet did not make good sense.
    
    
      
    
    Orji started things off in the shot put. After a 58+ warmup 
        he launched a safety throw of 56-10. This got everyone excited for things 
        to come. However, he was unable to stay off his right heel in the power position 
        and lost transition speed on every throw. Nevertheless, Orji finished third 
        for six points. Immediately afterward, Orji went to the hammer where he found 
        his rhythm that was missing last week. However, he was still losing speed 
        as he failed to flex his left knee when entering the turns. His throw of 176-8 
        was his second best of the season and was good for fifth place and four points.
    
    
      
    
    On the track, Eric Khatchadourian was running the 10K, hoping 
        to redeem himself from last weekend and score some points while he was at 
        it. The pace began slow at 80 seconds per lap for the first two miles. The 
        pace picked up in the third mile and Khatchadourian went with it although 
        he was slowly falling back in the pack. His pace was good and he knew to be 
        patient. Sure enough, the lead pack began to break up just before four miles 
        and Khatchadourian took advantage as he ran his fourth mile in 5:09 to begin 
        to close on seventh place. His 5:06 fifth mile brought him to fifth place 
        and he was closing in on the second through fourth. As those he was trying 
        to catch began to battle amongst themselves they began to pull away again. 
        Khatchadourian ran a 5:08 last mile and finished with a 73 last quarter to 
        run a PR of 32:18.90, good for fifth place.
    
    
      
    
    Also on the track, Brian Anderson continued his comeback effort 
        in the 800. He ran the first 400 in 55 and was in perfect position for a run 
        at the heat victory. However, he lost focus between 500 and 600 meters and 
        found himself out of the race by the time he woke up and decided to run. His 
        finish in 1:56.33 was a compelling argument to continue the comeback effort 
        but with only two weeks to go it might be a case of too little, too late.
    
    
      
    
    On day two, the steeplechasing trio of Ben Schmeckpeper, Chris 
        Fidkowski and Carlos Renjifo were hoping to run PR's and try to score out 
        of the slow section. Schmeckpeper in particular was trying to run a national 
        qualifying time but was not too confident he could do it by himself out of 
        the slower section. Schmeckpeper took the lead in the first lap and ran 75 
        second quarters for the first mile. Fidkowski and Renjifo were running ambitiously 
        but seemed comfortable with 5:06 at the mile mark. Schmeckpeper continued 
        to pull away through six laps but then ran 79 for the seventh lap before getting 
        it together for a last 200 of 36 and a five second victory over Fidkowski 
        and sixth place overall. Fidkowski slowed to 79 for laps five and six but 
        then really came on with a final lap and a half in 1:49 for a huge PR of 9:33.88. 
        Renjifo ran the biggest personal best of all, improving 16 seconds to 9:39.14 
        for fourth place in the section and 12th place overall.
    
    
      
    
    Zach Traina, who had qualified for the 200 finals the day before 
        in 22.09, did not get a good start and fell behind right away. Despite a strong 
        closing 100 Traina was not able to place higher than seventh..
    
    
      
    
    Next week, MIT will take the weekend off with the exception 
        of Nate Ball. Ball will travel to Williamstown to compete in the pole vault 
        in the ECAC meet. The remainder of MIT's contingent will wait until the May 
        22 Last Chance Qualifier at home.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO OUDOOR
    
    
      
    
     
    
    
      
    
     
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **TECH TRACK STEPS IT UP TO WIN 4TH STRAIGHT NEWMAC 
        CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP**
    
    
      
    
    April 24, 2004
    
    
      
    
    After a somewhat disappointing regular season due to a lack 
        of depth in all events, MIT Men's track and field team stepped up their intensity 
        and performances to defend their NEWMAC Conference championship, winning the 
        event for the fourth year in succession and fifth in the six year history 
        of the event. MIT's 178 points, was enough to outpoint favored Springfield 
        by 30 points. MIT, seeded to score 161 points, matched or exceeded their seed 
        points in every event except the 800 and 5000. The Engineers even scratched 
        from the final event, the 1600 relay since there was no need to pile up points 
        or add fatigue to those getting ready for next week's championship.
    
    
      
    
    Nearly everything came together for the Engineers on this sunny 
        but extremely windy day. Uzoma Orji, seeded to win his three events (hammer, 
        discus, shot put) did just that. Orji began the day in the hammer, an event 
        he has struggled with lately as he tries to strike a balance of position and 
        speed. He found some of that balance, winning with a throw of 176-4. His second 
        event, the discus throw is another event Orji is trying to get comfortable 
        with. His technique is coming around but is not at the point where he can 
        put all of effort into the throw. In this competition, he was again able to 
        find the correct positions, throwing 151-10 to win by nine feet. Orji's specialty, 
        the shot put, is starting to come around after a few weeks of working on some 
        basics. Orji simply focused on throwing far and certainly accomplished that, 
        setting a new meet and MIT record with a put of 56-11 1/4.
    
    
      
    
    Zach Traina brought his game and came to play. Traina led off 
        the 4x100 relay, opening up a 10 meter lead at the first handoff to lead Tech 
        to a third place finish against a very talented group of sprint teams. In 
        the 100 trials and finals, Traina showed he is ready for the championships, 
        running 10.95 in the finals for 2nd place. A loss of focus and not getting 
        the most out of his start cost him the victory, but there is the New England 
        Division III Championships next week and another opportunity to run the perfect 
        race. Traina's specialty, the 200, looked perfect for the first 180 meters, 
        but then he tried too hard, slowing a bit coming into the finish line. Despite 
        the technical flaws, Traina won the race in 22.41.
    
    
      
    
    Due to the wind, most of MIT's other big points came in clusters 
        where the individuals on the team worked together and helped each other to 
        defeat the other teams. A perfect example was the extreme effort in the pole 
        vault by MIT's trio of Nate Ball, Nestor Hernandez and Josh Chartier. Despite 
        an inconsistent crosswind that would sometimes change to a tailwind, Hernandez 
        and Chartier fought their way one height at a time, helping each other with 
        advice to finally clear 12-9 to outlast all other vaulters except teammate 
        Ball, who had yet to come in. At 13-3 Ball's first attempt was not successful 
        as the wind prevented him from attaining a clean bend of the pole, sending 
        him into the right standard. With his teammates encouragement, Ball made the 
        next attempt with over a foot to spare. Given the risk of the wind, Ball stopped 
        their, satisfied with MIT's 1-2-3 sweep.
    
    
      
    
    Another example came in the long jump, an event that has not 
        gone well for MIT all year. Hernandez was back from his hamstring injury but 
        was suffering from an illness that had him on antibiotics during the week. 
        The jumpers rallied like they haven't done since last year. All jumpers had 
        year bests, with rookie graduate student, Stuart Laval, leading the way with 
        a PR of 20-11 3/4 for third place. Right behind Laval was Hernandez at 20-5 
        1/2 for 4th. Thad Wozniak jumped 19-11 to garner the last scoring spot. Chris 
        Bateman, who had just secured a sixth place in the high jump missed scoring 
        in the long jump by one place, jumping a season best of 19-6 3/4.
    
    
      
    
    The first running event showed further evidence of MIT's team 
        work. Spencer Dudley and Ian Driver, running the 10K for the first time, worked 
        together and followed the plan to perfection. Both ran 82 second quarters 
        perfectly through three miles, letting others do the work of leading the race. 
        After three miles, Dudley picked up the pace to take over second place for 
        good, finishing in 33:48.68. Driver could not follow but managed to open up 
        a lead over fourth place. With one mile to go, the fourth place runner had 
        closed the gap on Driver to three seconds and had been moving up two seconds 
        per lap. Driver responded to the urging by his teammates, dropping the pace 
        to 77 over the final two laps to pull away and secure third place in 34:15.24.
    
    
      
    
    In the steeple chase, Carlos Renjifo, Chris Fidkowski and Robbie 
        Bryant all ran personal bests or right at it despite the strong winds. Renjifo 
        took the lead after one lap and broke the wind for the rest of the pack, but 
        still winning in 9:56.53, a time within two tenths of his best. Fidkowski 
        followed, at times working side by side with Renjifo, but finishing in second 
        in a best of 9:59.32. Bryant struggled the entire race to stay with the pack, 
        sometimes falling two seconds out and looking like he would not get back in 
        it, but each time he did just that. In the final lap and a half Bryant pulled 
        into third and never looked back, finishing in a PR of 10:02.19. 
    
    
      
    
    In the 5000 meter race, Coach Halston Taylor had the MIT contingent, 
        two of which were returning from the 1500 race, hold back for the first half 
        of the race so they would not have to fight the wind or overly fatigue themselves. 
        The objective was to place high enough to secure the team victory. This they 
        did, as Ben Schmeckpeper led Kevin Brulois and Eric Khatchadourian to a 2-3-4 
        finish. 
    
    
      
    
    Other MIT athletes displayed superior performances to place 
        well. Makinde Adeagbo, competing in the triple jump, added two feet to his 
        best, jumping 42-4 3/4 to place second and qualify for the New England Division 
        III Championships next weekend. In the 1500, despite the 76 second first quarter, 
        MIT runners placed second, fourth and fifth as Brian Anderson came within 
        .21 seconds of the win but his still healing hamstring would not allow him 
        to kick. Schmeckpeper and John Brewer assisted with the fourth and fifth places. 
      
    
    
      
    
    Next week, MIT takes twenty qualifiers to the New England Division 
        III Championships at Williams College. MIT is not expected to be a threat 
        for the title but they are sure to be a presence.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO OUTDOOR
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    **TRAINA SPRINTS BACK TO TOP FORM**
    
    
      
    
    **MIT Continues to Struggle With Lack of Depth**
    
    
      
    
    April 10, 2004
    
    
      
    
    For the first time in since the 1970s, MIT outdoor track has 
        a losing season. Entering the meet against Bowdoin College, Tufts University 
        and Division II powerhouse UMass Lowell, host MIT needed to defeat two of 
        the teams to finish with a winning record. Even though the 2004 team lacks 
        depth, the familiar tradition of never giving up and doing anything possible 
        for the team is obvious. However, try as they might, there just weren't enough 
        entries on the MIT side of the ledger to get the wins. Ending up on the low 
        end of the score with 125 points to UMass Lowell's 196, Tufts' 172 and Bowdoin's 
        165 did nothing to slow up Zach Traina who won both the 100 and 200 meter 
        sprint events.
    
    
      
    
    Traina started his day by leading off the 4x100 relay to a season 
        best of 43.32. In the 100, Traina had an average start but soon pulled away, 
        taking advantage of the wind conditions to run 10.92. Later in the meet, despite 
        tightening up a bit in the final twenty meters, Traina nevertheless held off 
        his competitors to win by over two tenths in 21.81.
    
    
      
    
    Uzoma Orji also scored big points to help the MIT cause when 
        he claimed first in the hammer throw with a toss of 166-8 and then came back 
        in the discus to place second with a throw of 146-6. In his specialty, the 
        shot put, Orji proved the point that you always take a safety throw on your 
        first effort to guarantee not fouling out when he fouled in the circle on 
        his first and second efforts and then fouled outside the sector on a standing 
        throw to foul out for the first time in his MIT career. Even a standing throw 
        for Orji would have won by over five feet.
    
    
      
    
    The only other event winner for MIT was Nate Ball in the pole 
        vault. Ball easily won with a successful vault at 14-6. Ball came close to 
        15-0 but the strong winds made vaulting a little difficult and unpredictable. 
        The vault was MIT's best event as they scored 22 out of a possible 37 points 
        using the 9-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 scoring system. Josh Chartier placed second with 
        a vault of 13-6 and Nestor Hernandez, vaulting for the first time since early 
        February when he injured his hamstring, cleared 12-6. Thad Wozniak, working 
        on his decathlon events, placed eighth with a clearance of 8-6.
    
    
      
    
    The sprints were dominant events for Tech as well. Supporting 
        Traina's efforts, were David Blau, second in the 100 with 11.24 and seventh 
        in the 200 with 22.85, and Jonathan Hsieh and Marcus Carson in the 100 with 
        times of 11.52 and 11.60 respectively. In addition, the foursome claimed second 
        in the 400 relay.
    
    
      
    
    The distance runners held their own in the 1500 and 3000 steeplechase 
        despite the lack of Brian Anderson. John Brewer led the way in the 1500 with 
        a third place effort of 4:05.95. Fivos Constantinou put his back pain out 
        of his mind to place sixth with 4:09.29. Running in the slow section, Eric 
        Khatchadourian led from start to finish, running into the strong wind for 
        a personal best of 4:10.48 and seventh place overall.
    
    
      
    
    Carlos Renjifo ran the steeplechase for the first time this 
        year, placing fourth in 10:01.08 despite a fall in the middle of the race 
        while on pace to run in the 9:30s. Running personal bests were Chris Fidkowski, 
        who placed fifth with 10:05.17 and Robby Bryant, who placed seventh with 10:14.26.
    
    
      
    
    Even though he did not place, the personal best of 15:35.41 
        in the 5000 by Kevin Brulois was a big breakthrough for the freshmen.
    
    
      
    
    Next week, MIT travels to Northeastern University's Dedham campus 
        to compete in an invitational starting at 10:00 AM.
    
    
      
    
    RETURN TO OUTDOOR
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



    
    
    
    
    
    
    **ORJI AND BALL QUALIFY FOR NATIONALS 
      DURING SPRING BREAK MEETS**
    
    
    
    
    March 24-27, 2004
    
    
    
    
    The MIT men's track and field team took advantage of the exceptional Florida 
      weather and had a solid week of training in preparation for the upcoming spring 
      season back in New England. In the midst of the training, the team found time 
      to compete in two invitational meets held at the National Triathlon Center in 
      Clermont. Both meets were scoring meets but MIT did not compete their middle 
      distance and distance runners in the first meet and chose to work on specific 
      goals rather than score points when half the team was back at MIT.
    
    
    
    
    The first meet was held on Wednesday. A very strong wind encouraged the meet 
      management to run the 100, 110HH and 200 in the opposite direction to take advantage 
      of the situation. Although Zach Traina was hand timed in 10.4 to win the 100, 
      an accurate time was not available since the automatic timing system did not 
      catch the start. It is assumed by those in attendance that this time was not 
      accurate despite the strong tailwind. In fact, all four MIT sprinters, Traina, 
      David Blau, Marcus Carson and Jonathan Hsieh were all timed under 11.00.
    
    
    
    
    Carson also ran the 110HH and despite hitting nearly every hurdle, still managed 
      to run 16.69 for his first effort ever at the 110HH at the 42" height. 
      Thad Wozniak, putting together a decathlon score by competing in five events 
      in this meet as well as the other five in Saturday's meet, ran a PR of 17.05. 
      Wozniak also had outstanding performances in his other events, long jumping 
      19-4, putting the shot 33-6, throwing the javelin 130-5 and running the 400 
      in 53.08.
    
    
    
    
    Nate Ball and Josh Chartier claimed first and second in the pole vault by clearing 
      14-0 and 12-6 respectively. Chartier allegedly cleared 13-0 but the results 
      only had him listed at the 12-6 height. 
    
    
    
    
    Uzoma Orji, getting back to basics after winning the national shot put title 
      a week and a half ago, only managed 54-2 1/2 in the shot. Of course, while this 
      seems like a trivial distance for Orji, it was an outdoor PR as well as a new 
      MIT record. Uzoma also had a PR in the hammer when he got in a throw of 170-4 
      before the called the event due to darkness.
    
    
    
    
    On the track, Traina also claimed victory in the 200 with a modest time of 
      22.57. The surprise of the 200 was Jesse Collins, who after winning the 400 
      in 52.65, came back and placed third in 23.39. The 400 relay team won, but due 
      to poor handoffs and the ferocious wind, only managed 45.42.
    
    
    
    
    The Saturday meet was different in just about every respect. The temperatures 
      were in the 80s and there was only a slight wind. The competition was much better 
      as well. The 400 relay team lessened their mistakes and ran 43.57, which is 
      a much more representative time at this point in the season. 
    
    
    
    
    Uzoma Orji led the way with three victories, claiming first place in the shot 
      put, discus and hammer events. His first event, the discus, Orji threw 154-5 
      for a personal best. There are many things to correct in this event for the 
      sophomore so keep your eyes open for big improvements by next season, if not 
      late this season. In his main event, the shot put, he did not have a very good 
      day. His winning toss of 53-5 3/4 was less than a couple of fouls in the 55-56 
      foot area, but it would have to do on this day. Eight hours after the discus 
      began, Orji began his hammer warmup. There was a further delay when a Cornell 
      College athlete, who was spectating and in a dangerous area, got hit in the 
      back of the shoulder by a hammer. The athlete was determined to be okay by medical 
      personnel about 1/2 hour later and the warmup continued. Only getting four throws 
      due to the onset of darkness, Orji made the most of his efforts, throwing 177-4 
      on his third throw. Orji provisionally qualified for naitonals in both the shot 
      and hammer and narrowly missed qualifying in the discus.
    
    
    
    
    MIT went 1-2 in the pole vault, led by Nate Ball's national qualifying performance 
      of 15-9 1/4. This almost did not happen as events seemed to conspire against 
      him. Earlier, another vaulter broke the cross bar and a very long delay was 
      necessary to come up with another cross bar. Once the event started up again, 
      it seemed to just get going when Ball broke his pole on an attempt at 14-6 due 
      to a fast approach, not jumping up and being a little inside his normal takeoff 
      position. Despite the stinger he received and a couple of blooday knuckles, 
      Ball jumped on his next biggest pole and easily cleared the height. Josh Chartier 
      cleared 13-6 for second place.
    
    
    
    
    Thad Wozniak continued his decathlon qualifying effort with day two of decathlon 
      events. Both the discus and pole were at the same time so be rushed to get a 
      height in in the pole vault then hurried to compete in the discus. He cleared 
      8' in the pole vault and threw 93' in the discus. After a short break he had 
      to begin the high jump and managed a height of 4' before he had to run the 1500. 
      Given the heat and the quick first quarter pace, Wozniak did well to run 5:06.47. 
      He then proceeded to cool down just enough to be able to go over and clear 5' 
      in the high jump. Finally, in the 100, he ran 11.78 on his fourth attempt. The 
      camera was not functioning well and they had to recall the race three times, 
      once after the runners had actually completed the race. One would think this 
      would be enough for any athlete in a single day, but Wozniak asked to compete 
      in the javelin as well, throwing a PR of 144'. His cumulative score of 5028 
      easily qualifies him for the New England Division III Championship in five weeks.
    
    
    
    
    Other top marks for the day were provided by John Brewer's 4:09.8 in the 1500 
      and his 2:02.18 in the 800, Zach Traina's 22.61 in the 200 after his debut 400 
      of 51.84, Jesse Collins 51.61 in the 400, David Blau's 11.37 in the 100, despite 
      the fact that it was his 4th 100, Kevin DiGenova's debut 3000 Steeplechase of 
      11:04 and Kevin Brulois's 16:06.0 5000.
    
    
    
    
    Next Saturday MIT travels to RPI for the Engineer's Cup against RPI and WPI.
    
    
    
    
    RETURN TO OUTDOOR
    
    
    
    
    


