




**LED BY FOUR NATIONAL QUALIFYING PERFORMANCES, THE VARSITY WINS THE 30TH
ANNUAL ALUMNI MEET**

January 10, 2004

The 30th annual alumni meet combined with a dinner honoring Gordon Kelly for
42 years of coaching and teaching brought out the alumni in record numbers.
Thirty-five alumni competed in official meet events and a few more in the
master's mile. Many more were in attendance to cheer on the "Has Beens" who
made a tremendous effort that fell a little short of victory as they lost to
the Varsity 72 to 59.

Over the past few months there had been a lot of electronic "trash talk" from
the two camps as the fun, but competitive contest heated up. The most recent
graduates assumed they would be able to make the difference between victory
and defeat. Most of the events were pretty clear cut prior to competition.
There was little doubt the Alumni would sweep the pentathlon, high jump and
high hurdles. Although they were expected to sweep the triple jump and long
jump as well, there was some hope by the Varsity that one or more of the old
timers would have a senior moment and forget how to perform the event. The
Varsity were expected to sweep the 55 dash and 200 as well as win the relay.
It was hoped the Varsity would also take the top two places in the shot put
and weight throw. The biggest doubt was the annual battle between Sean
Montgomery '01 and Brian Anderson '04, which Montgomery has owned in the past.

In the morning the meet started off with a pentathlon. The Varsity went to bat
with two rookies, Thad Wozniak and Marcus Carson. The Alumni brought in former
New England Division III Champions Craig Mielcarz and Rick Rajter as well as
place winner Tony Pelosi. Wozniak gave Pelosi all he wanted but was not strong
enough in the 1000 meter run, losing third place by 59 points. Rajter won the
event with 3076 points to spot the Alumni to a 9-0 lead

The first event of the afternoon session was the weight throw. As expected,
Chris Khan and Uzoma Orji were in the lead from the second round although Todd
Chamoy represented the Alumni well, throwing 51-5.25 for third place. Khan
passed Orji on his final throw to take the victory with a toss of 54-02.5.
Both Khan and Orji (53-11.5) qualified provisionally for nationals.

In the long jump, what may have turned out to be the pivotal upset in the meet
occurred when Nestor Hernandez leaped 20-11 to take the victory from a group
of alumni jumpers, Ravi Sastry, Kevin Scannell, Mielcarz and Rajter. This was
the break the Varsity was hoping for and pulled the current Engineers to
within 1 point.

As expected, the high jump and triple jump were swept by the Alumni. In the
high jump, Sastry led the way with a jump of 5-10 and was followed by Rajter
with 5-8 and Mielcarz with 5-6. They could have jumped higher if necessary but
the Varsity could not pose a threat even at those heights. Zach Traina, the
lone entrant in the triple jump for the Varsity, nearly stole third place with
a leap of 39-9.5, but Scannell passed him on his last attempt to provide the
Alumni with another sweep.

Orji and Khan went back to work in the shot put, again placing first and
second. Orji had an amazing series, breaking his own school record on four of
his six throws, finishing with a new record of 55-4.5. Orji's throw was a
provisional national qualifying mark and should certainly get him to the
University of Wisconsin, Whitewater in March. Khan had an indoor personal best
with a throw of 47-2.5. The Varsity nearly got a sweep when Francisco Cruz
threw 40-5.75 for fourth, but Pat Dannen unleashed a 42-3.5 effort to take
third place.

Nate Ball won the pole vault for the varsity with a leap of 14-0, but pulled
his hamstring in the process. Bill Singhose, former national decathlon
champion and pole vault All America winner, was too injured to compete. Dan
Kwon was able to jump 13-0 for second place for the Alumni while Josh Chartier
claimed 3rd. for the Varsity. After all field events, including the
pentathlon, the Alumni were up 36 to 27.

On the track, Anderson began his first battle with Montgomery in the 1500.
Former national champion, Ethan Crain, who had not been training, tried to
fool everyone into thinking he had by going out hard at the start and coming
through in 62 for the first quarter. Anderson went with him and when Crain
fell off the pace, decided to keep pushing it. Montgomery hoped to pull up on
Anderson but the pace did not slow down as Anderson came through 1200 meters
in 3:10 en route to finishing with a national provisional qualifying time of
3:57.18. Montgomery held on for second and John Brewer came through for the
Varsity with a 4:10.09 third place.

As expected the 55HH was an easy sweep for the Alumni despite a tired Rajter
and Mielcarz. Sastry won his second event with a time of 8.17. The Alumni had
amassed 48 points to the Varsity's 33 but the best was yet to come for the
Varsity who would not lose another event.

In the 400, Matt Lehman ran a remarkable 51.06 for the Varsity to edge Yuval
Mazor for the Alumni, who ran 51.91. Jesse Collins, a sophomore who did not
run as a freshmen, ran 52.51 for third.

The dash went even better than expected for the Varsity. Traina led a four man
sweep to victory with a 6.74 performance. Akin Aina led the upset attempt for
the Alumni but an earlier injury had prevented him from practicing, allowing
him no better than a 7.06.

The 800 brought about the second battle between Anderson and Montgomery.
Anderson put the exclamation on the switching of the guard as he went wire to
wire in 1:56.71 for the victory. Mark Jeunette and Montgomery ran well to
defeat Steve Stoddard of the Varsity to gain four points for the Alumni,
keeping the Alumni up 55 to 53.

The 200 was a duplication of the dash, giving the Varsity another sweep of the
first four places. Traina again led the way, matching Anderson with two
victories, with a time of 23.30. Lehman supported Traina's effort with a fine
time of 23.34. The Varsity finally had the lead again and intended to keep it
with only the 5000 and 4x200 remaining.

The Alumni had put together a distance group capable of retaking the lead with
the ageless Terry McNatt, Craig Wildman and Josh Feldman. They ran together
and eventually wore down the Varsity contingent with the exception of Ben
Schmeckpeper. Schmeckpeper pushed the pace early, running 72s for the first
two and half miles, eventually running 15:10.61 for the win, clinching the
team victory.

MIT's next meet is against Bates and Coast Guard at Bates on January 17th at
1:00. With the injury to Ball and most of the Engineer's jumpers and multi-
eventers not participating this season, all competitions will be difficult.
MIT has not lost a regular season meet since 2001.

Those competing for the Alumni were the following:

Aina, Akin , Biesiadecki, John , Butville, Mike , Chamoy, Todd , Chung, Bruce
, Collins, Bob , Crain, Ethan , Curtiss, Mark , Dannen, Pat , Dunzo, Mark ,
Feldman, Josh , Hunter, Greg , Jeunette, Mark , Kieda, Dave , Kothari, Kalpak
, Kwon, Dan , Lefkowitz, Steve , Mazor, Yuval , McNatt, Terry , Mielcarz,
Craig , Montgomery, Sean , Moose, Garret , Pelosi, Tony , Presing, Joe ,
Rajter, Rick , Richardson, Frank , Rosalez, Rich , Rosenfield, Todd , Sastry,
Ravi , Scannell, Kevin , Sidiqi, Sam , Singhose, Bill , Thibault, Sam , Van
Buren, Chuck , Walmsley, Bob , Wildman, Craig . , Wilkes, Gary  
  
Others in attendance were:

Lew Bender, Vanu Bose, Sumner Brown, Fritz Bunke, J. P. Clarke, Chris DeMarco,
Javit Drake, Jim Garcia, Sean Garrett, Liyan Guo, Patrick Hamilton, Tom
Hansen, Glen Hopkins, Colin Kerwin, Max Klein, Ken Kovach, Albert Lau, Jeff
Lukas, John Lundberg, Jack Martin, Chris McGuire, Tim McManus, Paul Miller,
Brian Moore, Paul Neves, Don Shobrys, Joseph Simko, Pat Sullivan, John Taylor,
Martin Taylor, Bobb White and David Wilson  
  


RETURN TO INDOOR
























**ENGINEERS CONSTRUCT NARROW VICTORY OVER BATES AND COAST GUARD**

January 17, 2004

MIT knows it is going to be a long season, but having to pull out all the
stops in order to claim a victory in the first meet has already made the
season a little longer. Favored by perhaps 20 points over host Bates College
and the United States Coast Guard Academy, MIT dropped the ball in a few
events, giving the Bobcats of Bates life that was not extinguished until the
final event. Bates needed little assistance as they were already fired up
knowing they had a chance to take down the unusually weak Engineers for the
first time since 1983.

The MIT team arrived a little late for a proper warmup and the youth of the
jumpers exacerbated that fact as they became distracted by having to get marks
in so many events. The scoring for the tri-meet would go 7-5-4-3-2-1 for
individual events and 7-5-0 for the relays. The long jump, pole vault and high
jump all started at 1:00 as well as the weight throw and 55 dash trials. Four
of the Tech jumpers were involved in some combination of at least two of the
jumping events and one in three events going off at the same time. Nestor
Hernandez handled the situation the best as he won the long jump with a leap
of 20-5 and placed second in the pole vault with a personal best of 13-6.
Marcus Carson made the finals of the 55, nearly placed in the high jump and
placed 5th in the long jump. However, overall MIT came out of the jumps down
27 to 31 to Bates.

In the throws, Uzoma Orji continued his early season dominance by winning both
the shot put and the weight throw. In the weight, Orji unleashed a personal
best of 57-1 1/2 on his fifth effort to up his national qualifying mark. In
the shot, Orji put the event away on his second effort after he fouled the
first attempt. In the finals he increased his mark to 55-0 1/4. Chris Khan
gave support despite his injured back. Not able to give 100% on his release,
Khan had to settle for 4th place in both events. After all field events, the
Engineers were down 47to 54 to the Bobcats.

The first running event, the 1500, was supposed to go MIT's way. While Brian
Anderson won easily in a sit and kick 4:04.17, Ben Schmeckpeper (3rd in
4:09.61), John Brewer (5th in 4:11.73) and Fivos Constantinou (6th in 4:18.02)
did not fare so well, scoring four less points than predicted.

Freshmen Bo Feng and Marcus Carson led MIT in the 55HH and with only six
entrants they would both score provided they finished the race. Both have been
having some difficulty making the adjustment to the 42" hurdles and were
hoping for a good race. Bates hurdlers took advantage of a weak field, placing
1-2-3 and garnering 16 points. Feng and Carson placed fourth and fifth
respectively, both with personal bests of 8.82 and 8.92. The score now 73 to
66 in favor of Bates.

Matt Lehman was favored to win the 400 and he did not disappoint. Lehman led
from gun to finish, winning by well over a second in 51.08. Thad Wozniak was
expected to place high in the weak field but was distracted when the gun was
fired before he was allowed to get set in the blocks. He never really
recovered, finishing last in his section, but placing sixth overall for one
point. Bates only finished second and fifth so were not able to take advantage
of MIT's performance.

The 600 meter race was also expected to go well for MIT, but between Jesse
Alejandro, Jesse Collins and Chris Tostado not following their race plan, and
Alejandro developing a tremendously painful blister on the ball of his foot,
Tech only managed a second, fifth and sixth while Bates claimed first place.
Between the two events (400 and 600), MIT managed to pick up two points to
close within five.

Zach Traina probably took one more triple jump than he should have prior to
the 55 dash because he ran one hundredth slower than the trials, giving way to
Bates top sprinter, Joel Colony, who ran 6.67 for the victory. David Blau
stepped up for third place and Jonathan Hsieh ran well for sixth. Bates
sprinters supported their victory with fourth and fifth place as well, gaining
back the two points they had lost to MIT in the previous two events and moving
their lead back to seven points.

Bates did not have many entrants in the 800 and 1000 meter events, making it
possible for MIT to make up a lot of points. In the 800, Steve Stoddard
attempted to run with the Coast Guard entrants, but could not hang with Mike
Flint of the Bears. Stoddard was able to stay in contact through nearly 600
meters, but then fell back, just holding on for second place. Constantinou
doubled back in the 800 and managed a 5th place to pick up a total of six
points on Bates. Anderson put it in high gear at the gun of the 1000 and never
backed off, running a very fine 2:31.78, winning by over five seconds.
Unfortunately, Brewer was not able to help out much, and lost to a Bates
runner right at the finish line, settling for fifth place. Sam Berberian added
a sixth place for Tech, helping MIT take the lead by six points.

MIT gained another two points in the 200, not nearly as many as they should
have gained on Bates' fast track. Traina took advantage of the outside lane,
running a season best of 23.00 to easily win the event. Lehman was not able to
claim second as he gave up to much ground at the start, but he did manage a
third place. The worst part is that MIT's other three participants were not
able to score when they should have been able to .

Going into the final individual event, MIT knew that if Bates cut the lead to
within seven points in the 3000, then MIT would have to try to spread their
relays out with hopes of winning both the 4x400 and the 4x800, or at least
beating Bates in both of them. This would mean bringing back some tired middle
distance runners for the 4x800 and weakening the 4x400 in the process.
Favorite Ben Schmeckpeper was unable to push a fast pace and thus fell to Joel
Anderson of Bates. Only managing 72 second quarters, the leaders nevertheless
pulled away from a very weak field. In the end, Anderson's 8:52.02 gave Bates
the victory to which they also added fourth and sixth place. Schmeckpeper
managed to run 8:55.96 for second and was supported by Eric Khatchadourian in
third. Bates gained two points, meaning the meet would come down to the
relays.

MIT went wire to wire in the 4x400 relay and thanks to Lehman's 50.4 anchor,
it was not really close. Bates finished 2nd to fall seven points behind MIT.
The Engineers knew that if Bates won the 4x800 and MIT finished third, the
meet would end in a tie. Brewer began his third race as the leadoff runner.
Running his best race of the day, Brewer went with the Bates runner. Coast
Guard pulled out to a big lead but Brewer stayed within a second of the Bates
runner at the handoff. Stoddard lost more ground to Coast Guard after his
first quarter but stayed within three seconds of the Bates second leg.
Constantinou ran a tremendous leg, closing the gap on Bates with a 28 first
200 and 58 first quarter. Not backing off, Constantinou pulled around the
Bates runner and opened up a nice gap, finishing with an excellent 2:02 leg.
Brian Anderson, prepared to make up a large gap, could not shut his adrenalin
off. Anderson opened up with splits of 26 and 53 seconds, closing the gap on
Coast Guard. Slowing down little, Anderson ran 1:54 to give MIT the event, the
team victory and an 8:05.61 time.

Things don't get any easier for MIT next week when they travel to Williamstown
to take on the host Ephs and the Engineers from RPI on Saturday at 2:00.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**ANDERSON AND ORJI REMAIN UNDEFEATED**

**MIT Unable to Take Down Favored Tufts**

January 31, 2004

MIT Men's Track and Field team came to Bowdoin College with the hopes and
expectations of upsetting a deep and talented team from Tufts University.
Despite some remarkable performances and gifts from Tufts, injuries and
disappointing distance event performances did them in. When it was all said
and done the Jumbos managed 133 points to 123 for MIT and 118 for Bowdoin, who
managed to improve significantly in this meet to challenge for the team
victory.

When 600 runner Jesse Alejandro missed the bus and meet it put the Engineers
in a hole for their relays. Tufts was favored by 25 points going into the meet
but had a significant setback when their star freshman horizontal jumper was
unable to compete due to an injury, which was worth about 10-15 points when
all things were considered. MIT went into the meet without star vaulter, Nate
Ball and middle distance runner John Brewer, but the team seemed prepared to
step up and get the job done.

In the first events things seemed to be going in Tech's favor. In the 55HH
trials, all three MIT hurdlers made the finals and both Marcus Carson and Bo
Feng set personal bests. In the dash trials, MIT swept 1-4 with Zach Traina
leading the way with a season best 6.67. With the scoring determined to be
7-5-4-3-2-1 in individual events and relays 7-5-0, MIT's sprint depth would be
key if they were to win the meet.

In the first final, the triple jump, MIT took advantage of a weak field,
inserting a couple of rookies who performed nicely, giving MIT 2nd, 3rd and
5th. However, on his third attempt, Traina, the one jumper who has been
performing every week, pulled his hamstring. This eliminated him from the dash
finals, the 200 where he was the favorite and the 4x400.

MIT kept their spirits up and kept fighting. In the pole vault, Josh Chartier
jumped a personal best of 14-1 to take the victory. Nestor Hernandez secured
2nd place while Tufts had two no heights, one from the vaulter favored to win
the event.

Hernandez enjoyed short lived success however. Proceeding over to the long
jump, which he was favored to win, Hernandez took a conservative first attempt
of 20-11 3/4 to take the lead. On his second attempt, he pulled his hamstring,
and had to settle for second place in the event.

Uzoma Orji left nothing to doubt in the 35 lb. weight throw. Any of his throws
would have won the event, but his best of 58-6 3/4 won by about seven feet.
One of the reasons he won by such a long distance was that teammate, Chris
Khan, still suffering from back pain, only took two throws. On his first
attempt, Khan threw 49-3 1/2, good enough for second place at the time. He
decided to pass his attempts unless someone passed him. A Tufts thrower did
just that on his final attempt and Khan was unable to respond with a fair
throw.

On the track, things could not be going better. In the mile, Brian Anderson
led from start to finish in a sterling time of 4:15.94. Fivos Constantinou
supported the effort with his own personal best of 4:25.54, good for 4th
place. In the high hurdles, Carson and Feng again ran personal bests of 8.29
and 8.55 respectively.

At this point, the score was MIT 56, Bowdoin 52 and Tufts 44. Bowdoin had
dominated the high jump with 16 of the possible 22 points and was hoping to do
similar damage in the 400. Tufts' Ray Carre defeated a trio of Bowdoin runners
at the wire, but Bowdoin still managed 13 points to take a seven point lead
over MIT.

The 600 was a little more evenly split thanks to a big effort by Tech's Jesse
Collins, who cracked MIT's top ten list with a 3rd place effort of 1:25.02.
Nevertheless, Bowdoin managed nine points to MIT's five to expand their lead
to 11 points. Tufts was back at 59, but once the distance events came around
they would take the lead if they were close enough beforehand.

Without Traina in the dash final, MIT could only manage 1-2-4 for fifteen
points. This brought MIT to within two points, but not the hoped for lead.
David Blau's winning time of 6.75 was a season best. Freshmen Jonathan Hsieh
and Carson placed second and fourth respectively, sandwiching a Bowdoin runner
who ran a great race for third.

Anderson was back in the 800 to keep Bowdoin and Tufts at bay, but without
Brewer, only Constantinou would be able to do battle with the leaders in the
1000. Anderson did his job by leading from start to finish with an evenly
split 1:55.91 season best. Steve Stoddard stepped up and ran a season best of
2:02.06 for fourth place to give MIT 10 points in the event, out pointing
Bowdoin and Tufts with six points each. Constantinou did his job, running a
three second PR of 2:37.76 but could only manage third place. No other MIT
runners ran well and Tufts took advantage, scoring 16 points. MIT was able to
take the lead with 92 points to 88 for Bowdoin and 82 for Tufts.

The 200, along with the shot put were supposed to put the meet away if the
distance runners could hold their own. Without Traina, MIT was counting on
Matt Lehman and David Blau to take care of business. After a great start,
Lehman made it about halfway down the backstretch before pulling his
hamstring. The third pull of the day made MIT athletes think a little more
than bad luck was going on. Blau was able to secure 3rd and Wozniak 5th, but
it was no where near what the Engineers expected. Instead of the six points
they scored, MIT would have had at least 13 and Tufts would have scored four
less. This 11 point swing would have been enough to win the meet.

Normally, a regular season meet only has either the 3000 or 5000 but not both.
Having both races certainly worked to Tufts advantage and they did their best
to seize the moment. Between the two events there were a possible 44 points.
In part, due to poor running on the part of some of MIT's normally reliable
distance runners, but mostly due to their own depth and ability, Tufts scored
28 points in the two events compared to six to MIT and 10 for Bowdoin. Tufts
took a 16 point lead over MIT and Bowdoin.

With Traina and Lehman out of the 1600 relay, MIT put together a team with no
chance to win but running in case one of the other teams did not finish or got
disqualified. Neither Bowdoin, nor Tufts disappointed, running superb times of
3:24.04 and 3:25.28 respectively. Bowdoin now had a seven point lead over MIT
and Tufts could not be caught.

The shot put was finishing up about the same time as the 3200 relay was
getting under way. Uzoma Orji added another two feet to his best, throwing a
nation leading 57-11 3/4 to easily win the event. Khan supported the MIT
effort with his own personal best of 48-11 for second place. Bowdoin scored
seven points to MIT's 12 to maintain a two point lead.

When it was clear MIT could not put together a scoring team in the 1600 relay
they elected to load up their 4x800 to make sure they could win the event. If
they won the event, the worst that would happen is they would tie Bowdoin for
second place in the meet. If Tufts also placed ahead of Bowdoin, MIT would
finish in second by five points.

Stoddard started things off with a solid 2:03.5 first 800, handing the stick
off just ahead of Tufts. Collins ran his first 800 of the year, maintaining a
small lead over Tufts by running 2:05.0. Constantinou continued with his
superb meet by running 2:02.1, providing Anderson with a five meter lead going
into the final leg. Anderson ran 29 for each 200, posting a 1:56.3 anchor to
win by four seconds over Tufts and 14 over Bowdoin.

Ending the regular season with a 5-2 record was the worst record since 1996,
when MIT last lost to Tufts. Nevertheless, the Engineers knew this was a
possibility and now must look forward to the championships, where they hope to
do better riding the tails of Orji and Anderson. Next week, MIT travels to
Harvard to compete in the Greater Boston Championship against Harvard,
Northeastern, Bentley and Brandeis.

RETURN TO INDOOR






**FINAL TUNEUP GETS MIT READY FOR CHAMPIONSHIPS**

February 14, 2004

MIT split their track team to take advantage of the best opportunities in
hopes of maximizing their chances of upsetting Williams and Tufts next weekend
for the New England Division III Championship. Most of the squad stayed at
home to compete in the annual Coed Invitational while select individuals
traveled across the river to Boston University to compete on their very fast
banked track.

Some outstanding performances were turned in at both venues. At BU, Brian
Anderson once again led the way. Anderson ran in a talent laden mile section
that pushed a fast pace throughout the race. Anderson ran with the leaders
through 1300 meters, then faded a little to finish in a PR of 4:10.11, the
fastest time in the country for division III this year.

Uzoma Orji did not have his best day, but still showed he can throw well when
things do not go his way. Orji finished 2nd in the shot put with a throw of
56-9 1/4. Chris Khan continued to improve at an incredible rate as he added
nearly a foot to his personal best. Khan made the finals and threw 49-9 3/4 on
his final throw.

David Blau improved his personal best in the 200 by running 22.90. Amazingly,
he did this without the use of blocks because meet management only allowed the
first three sections to use blocks.

Late in the meet, Ben Schmeckpeper took out his aggravation of being placed in
the developmental section of the 3000 out on the rest of his section by
running 8:30.85. Schmeckpeper's time was good enough to move him into 3rd
place on the all time list for MIT.

Back at MIT Josh Chartier showed his consistency by again vaulting 14'. Nate
Ball jumped for the first time in over a month and cleared 13'. The other
field event outstanding performance was turned in by Francisco Cruz, who threw
43-3 1/4 for his best throw this season.

On the track, Jonathan Hsieh ran a personal best in the 200 with a 23.75.
Steve Kannan also ran a PR by racing to a 1:27.67 performance in the 600.
Marcus Carson knocked a hundredth off his 55HH best with a 8.28 performance.
In his first collegiate race ever, graduate student Chris Fidkowski, ran an
outstanding 1500 in 4:12.40. Fidkowski will undoubtedly add to his cross
country success by having a great outdoor season. Last, but not least, Kevin
Brulois made a breakthrough in the 5000 with a fine performance of 15:53.78.

With injuries to Zach Traina (sprints), Matt Lehman (400), Nestor Hernandez
(LJ, PV), John Brewer (long relays) and Fivos Constantinou (long relays),
there is no doubt that MIT will enter next weekend's championship as distinct
underdogs. However, it has always been Tech's tradition to step up when needed
and it certainly seems to be needed. The New England Division III Championship
will be held at Bowdoin College on Friday and Saturday, February 20-21.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT RUNS AWAY WITH GREATER BOSTON CHAMPIONSHIP AS THE ANDERSON AND ORJI SHOW
CONTINUES**

February 7, 2004

It was Brian Anderson Day at the Harvard Track on Saturday as Anderson won his
customary two events and ran a great anchor leg of the mile relay to lead MIT
to the Greater Boston Championship. MIT came out on top with 144 points to 116
for Harvard, 95 for Bentley and 80 for Brandeis.

Despite holding out key performers (Nate Ball - pole vault, Nestor Hernandez -
long jump, pole vault, Chris Khan - weight throw, Matt Lehman - 400 and Zach
Traina - 55, 200) due to injuries that are not quite ready for competitive
situation, MIT won seven of 16 events, four with national level performances.

Anderson started his day with the mile run. Running splits of 62, 2:03 and
3:05, he opened up a 60 meter gap on the rest of the field. Tying up a little
at the end, Anderson could only finish in 66 to win in an indoor personal best
of 4:11.87. Four events later, Anderson was back on the track in the 800.
Running behind for a total of 150 meters, Anderson took the lead and came
through the first 200 in 27. He even split the 400, running 55 for the 400.
Slowing a little he ran 28 and 29 for the final two laps to finish in 1:52.88.
Both performances are national qualifying marks. In the mile relay, running
from behind without the services of Lehman and Traina, Anderson ran his first
400 of the season in 49.7 to nearly make up the 15 meter difference on the
Bentley runner and bring the team in a season best time of 3:27.60. The 3:27
converts to a 1600 time of 3:26.50.

Uzoma Orji did not set any PRs but he still won both of his specialties quite
easily. In the weight throw, Orji threw 58-1 3/4 to win by over eight feet. In
the shot put, he threw 55-3 to beat the best Harvard thrower by over three
feet. Chris Khan did compete in the shot even though he gave his injured back
a rest in the weight throw and came through with a fine effort of 48-8 to
claim fourth.

Josh Chartier decided he likes winning as he cleared 13-5 3/4 to take first in
the pole vault. He nearly cleared 14-3 on his second attempt and on landing
bit through his lip, which ended his day of competition. Marcus Carson also
claimed his first victory for MIT with a time of 9.06 in the 60 meter hurdles.
Carson had a slow start but finished very fast to claim first place. The final
Tech winner was Ben Schmeckpeper in the 5000. Schmeckpeper went out a little
too fast in the first 400 and after mile splits of 4:37 and 9:28 could no
longer maintain the pace. Schmeckpeper finished in a season best of 15:05.60.

Next weekend, MIT will split its squad, sending a few of the top competitors
to BU for the Fastrack Invitational and keeping the rest at home in MIT's Coed
Invitational.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**ORJI AND BALL TOP THE MIT EFFORTS AT IC4A AND ECAC CHAMPIONSHIPS**

March 7, 2004

MIT split their athletes up this weekend, sending Brian Anderson and Uzoma
Orji to the IC4A Championship at Boston University and Nate Ball, Josh
Chartier and Ben Schmeckpeper to the ECAC Division III Championship at Bowdoin
College. MIT made the most of the entries by scoring 13 points at the ECAC
meet and 10 points at the IC4A meet.

Schmeckpeper, an entry in the 5000 meters, was the first to compete. He had
qualified for the IC4A meet by virtue of his 14:39 performance the week
before. Because he was ranked only 15th nationally, he wanted to give it
another try since the NCAA only takes 10-11 per event. The 5000 at the IC4A
Championship is held on Sunday. The NCAA Division III policies dictate that
all qualifying marks have to be in by 11:59 PM on Saturday the 6th of March.
The ECAC 5000 is held on Friday, so the decision was made. Having already run
two quality 5Ks in the past two weeks, Schmeckpeper was possibly a little
fatigued, mentally if not physically. After 1600 splits of 4:43 and 4:46, it
was obvious he was not on his A game. Schmeckpeper finished in 5th place with
a time of 15:04.84 and will have to wait until the outdoor season to try and
qualify for the national championship.

In the Pole Vault, Nate Ball and Josh Chartier attempted to gain national
qualifying marks. Chartier could not put it all together and was only able to
clear 13-5 3/4. Ball got his step back after being injured for more than two
months and jumped 15-5 1/2. His mark was good enough to qualify for nationals,
but only provisionally. They too will have to wait for the outdoor season.

At the IC4A meet, Anderson was entered in the 800 and Orji in both the Weight
Throw and the Shot Put. Anderson did not have a definite game plan in mind and
it showed once the trials began. He could not decide if he wanted to go for a
time by running from the front, or running from behind and closing hard at the
end. Instead he went back and forth a few times from the front to the back,
all in lane three. By the time the race pace picked up Anderson was done,
finishing in 1:55.05.

Orji competed in the Weight Throw first. He was seeded 9th and hoped to make
finals and put together a big throw to place well. His first throw was 57-9
and that was as good as it got, which placed him a very respectable seventh.
His two season experience with the 35lb. implement is just inadequate to put a
big throw together but he is hoping to do so at the NCAA Division III
Championship where he is seeded sixth.

The Shot Put was Sunday and Orji brought a different set of expectations to
the table. Seeded third, Orji held true to his seed in the trials, throwing
56-1 3/4. In the finals, before Orji could take his turn he was already back
to fifth place. He responded to move back to third place. On his fifth throw
of the competition, he got most of one and threw 57-7 to move into second
place. Orji went for it all on his final attempt but left his back leg and did
not get any lift. Nevertheless, scoring 10 points and placing in two events is
pretty good for a sophomore. Orji is seeded number one at nationals in the
shot and is determined to make it stand.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**ORJI LEADS MIT TO 11TH PLACE FINISH AT NCAA CHAMPIONSHIP**

**Wins NCAA Meet Male Field Athlete of the Meet**

March 13, 2004

Uzoma Orji continued his season long domination of the shot put at the NCAA
Division III Championship being held at the University of Wisconsin Whitewater
with a personal best of 59-6 1/4, winning the event by over three feet. He
backed it up with another personal best in the weight throw, throwing the ball
60-3 3/4 to secure 5th place and a total of 14 points for MIT. His
performances as well as his infectious preparations earned him the
championship male field athlete of the meet.

His meet began on Friday with the weight throw. Orji, scheduled to throw
first, opened up with a 58-0 1/2 effort. This was a great start and had the
MIT coaches and supporters looking forward to a great weekend. However, the
next two throwers both threw personal bests and Orji was already in third
place. Fortunately, things calmed down a bit and no one else threw further. In
the second flight, two others passed Orji, putting him in fifth going into the
finals. On his first throw of the finals Orji blasted his PR, moving into
fourth position. On his fifth throw, another thrower passed Orji to move him
back to fifth. Despite another great effort, this one 58-6, Orji could not
move up.

Later on Friday, Brian Anderson took to the track in the first of his two
trials, the 1500. Anderson has been suffering from an injured glute/hamstring
and has been unable to train properly for the past five weeks. Nevertheless,
Anderson felt ready and appeared confident. Halfway through the race, coming
through in a pedestrian 2:09 at the 800, Anderson took the lead and picked up
the pace to come through the 1200 in 3:11. In the final 200 he was unable to
respond, showing the lack of training, finishing in 3:59.48, missing the
finals by one position.

In the 800 trials Anderson was angry at not making the 1500 final and was
determined to help MIT score some points. This time, after the first 400
Anderson appeared to want to take the lead, but seemed indecisive, prefering
to stay in lane two on the shoulder of the leader. In the final 200 Anderson
again could not respond, finishing last in his heat with a time of 1:56.78.
After last year's third place finish Anderson was obviously disappointed but
it was obvious he gave his best and just did not have it that day.

On Saturday, Orji took to the circle once again. Entering the shot put
competition he was ranked first by four inches over two other throwers. One of
those throwers was one of three previous national champions in the event. Orji
certainly had his work cut out for himself. He opened up with a safety throw
of 54-8. On this second throw he blasted a personal best of 58-3. On his final
throw of the first flight, he fouled, but had secured first place in the
flight by well over three feet. In the second flight, the defending national
champion could only manage a 55-5 effort even though that was the best in the
flight. In the finals, Orji brought a whole new level of energy to the event.
Yelling at himself and jumping in the air to get psyched up, the crowd
responded and began to cheer loudly for him. He did not disappoint, blasting
his 59-6 1/4 much to the delight of the crowd. Orji's mark was a new facility
record and missed the national championship record by a mere seven
centimeters. From that point on it was Orji's show. The crowd was silent for
every other thrower except Orji. On his final two efforts, the entire crowd
standing behind the shot area and most of those in the stands began a rhythmic
clap in support of Orji's yelling and fired up efforts prior to his throw. The
area was rocking with noise, completely drowning out the announcer and support
in the neighboring triple jump. Orji went for the 60' barrier and may have had
it on his fifth throw if not for a narrow foul. On his final throw, he threw
another blast, this one 58-9 1/4 to bring an end to a great competition even
though the runner-up threw 56-5 1/4.

RETURN TO INDOOR










**MIT CLAIMS FOURTH PLACE IN NE DIVISION III CHAMPIONSHIP**



February 21, 2004

MIT went into the New England Division III Championships, hosted by Bowdoin
College, with hopes of securing third place. Significantly below full
strength, the Engineers hoped they could have great performances from the few
athletes they had competing and hold off Bates College, who was seeded within
a few points of MIT. After all the dust cleared, Williams College returned to
the champions position with 115.5 points. Tufts had a good meet, putting
together 107.5 points. Bates had marvelous performances from their weight
throwers and their 600 and 3000 meter runners to exceed their seed and come
home with the third place trophy, scoring 84.5 points in the process. MIT also
exceeded their seeds, scoring 73 points, but with one event to go realized
they could not make up the necessary points and cruised in the 3200 relay to
avoid aggravating star the injured glute of middle distance star Brian
Anderson.

On Friday, Marcus Carson and Thad Wozniak participated in the pentathlon. With
MIT's normally dominating contingent either graduated or electing to not
participate on the team, Wozniak and Carson, both rookies in the event, knew
they had to put points on the board. Both started off well in the hurdles and
performed well all day. Wozniak placed fourth and Carson sixth, both with
season bests of 2735 and 2540 respectively.

In the first event, the 35 lb. weight throw, Uzoma Orji took care of business
with a throw of 57-00 3/4 to win the event. The big surprise was Chris Khan
moving from seventh to third on his last throw with a 55-1 1/2 for a season
best. This is after three weeks of not throwing the implement, even in
practice due to an injured back. The shot put brought similar results. Again
Orji took care of his part by throwing a meet record of 57-1. Once again, the
surprise was Khan moving from fifth to third with a 15 inch personal best of
51-2 1/4 on his final throw. Orji and Khan accounted for 32 points between
them, which would have defeated all by eight of the team in New England.

Josh Chartier and Nate Ball entered the pole vault hoping to add significantly
to the Engineers point total. Ball, not having vaulted hard since the alumni
meet due to his hamstring pull, could not get the timing down and no heighted.
Chartier jumped well at 13-9 but could not clear a PR of 14-3. Chartier
claimed sixth place to add three points to MIT's effort.

On the track, Brian Anderson took his partially injured glute and ran
conservatively for the first part of the 1500. Once he picked up the pace he
was dogged by a determined runner from Bowdoin. Anderson could not shake him
and was unprepared to handle the final kick, losing for the first time this
year to a division III athlete. Coach Halston Taylor took the blame for this
loss, explaining that it was he who asked Anderson to use the strategy. In the
1000 meters, Anderson did not have to be told to run his race from the front,
which he did, winning by nearly two seconds in 2:29.45.

Zach Traina stepped on the track for the first time in three weeks, in fact
the same track where he pulled his hamstring on January 31. Against his better
judgment, Coach Taylor allowed Traina to run the 200, an event in which Traina
was seeded eighth. Not only did Traina make the finals but he set a personal
indoor best of 22.50 to post the fastest time in the trials. It was obvious
that his endurance was not there as he slowed significantly in the final 30
meters. In the finals, Traina again got out well and again fatigued on the
final straight. Nevertheless, his 22.61 was good enough for third place and an
unexpected six points.

Ben Schmeckpeper had a difficult decision to make when deciding which race to
enter, the 3000 or the 5000. Needing a faster 5000 time to guarantee entrance
in the All Division New England Championship next weekend, and thus another
shot at nationals, Schmeckpeper decided on that race rather than the 3000
where he had the fastest seed time. The 3000 may have garnered more points for
MIT but would have been a dead end since that distance is not run at the NCAA
Championships in division III. The pace was quick and Schmeckpeper was right
with the leaders through two miles in 9:31. The leader and eventual winner of
the race, Nate Brigham from Tufts, decided he no longer wanted the lead and
slowed to 78 second pace trying to force someone in the lead. Eventually
another runner took the lead with less than a mile to go. With three quarters
of a mile to go, Schmeckpeper took the lead but did not put the runners away.
When the others kicked, Schmeckpeper could not go with them, settling for a
very respectable fourth place finish in a personal best of 14:51.96.

MIT had just enough bodies to put together two relays, the distance medley and
the 3200. In the DMR, Chris Fidkowski ran his second track race ever and
produced a respectable 3:14 1200 meter opening leg. Wozniak came back from his
pentathlon effort and provided a 52.7 leg to move MIT up to sixth place. Eric
Khatchadourian ran a very fine 2:02.8 leg and had MIT in the back of a pack
running for fifth place. Carlos Renjifo got caught up in the excitement and
went out a little too fast, posting splits of 31 and 62 seconds for the first
200 and 400. This pace took its toll, causing Renjifo to settle for a survival
pace, holding on for 8th with a 4:26 split. It was a loaded field as MIT ran a
season best by 22 seconds and still only got one point out of it.

Bates College needed at least three points in the 1600 relay to make it
mathematically impossible for MIT to catch them and three points is exactly
what they got. Coach Taylor told Anderson, the anchor, to not risk further
injury and to take it easy unless it was obvious MIT could win the event. MIT
ran great splits but not good enough to put Anderson in contention. Jesse
Collins moved up from the 600 distance to record a 2:02.9 leg. Fivos
Constantinous, battled an injured abdominal muscle to run a season best of
2:00.8. Imran Hendley also ran a season best, but his 2:03.9 put him far
behind the first three teams in the race. Anderson could have run a sub 2:00
800 to get the team to fourth place in the race, but the additional points
would not help the cause so Anderson jogged in a 2:11 to save his body for
nationals.

Next week, Traina, Anderson, Schmeckpeper, Orji, Khan and possibly the Ball
and Chartier will compete at the All New Englands held at Boston University on
Friday night and Saturday afternoon.

RETURN TO INDOOR












**ORJI CARRIES THROWS DOMINATION AT ALL NEW ENGLANDS WITH WINS IN SHOT AND
WEIGHT**

February 28, 2004

MIT Men's track and field team took six athletes to the All Division New
England Championships and came away with an 11th place finish and the top
Division III finish in the meet. Leading the way for the Engineers was Uzoma
Orji. Orji, who won the Shot Put and Weight Throw last week at the New England
Division III Championship, came away with the same results against the
Division I competition in New England, scoring 20 of MIT's 23 points.

In the 35lb. Weight Throw, Orji was in fifth going into the last round of the
finals. With a throw of 58-5 3/4 he moved to first place and was able to hold
it for MIT's first points. In the Shot Put, Orji threw 57-3 1/2 on his first
throw and that was enough for the win. MIT has not had a double winner in this
meet in recent history, if ever. Chris Khan, throwing with both a back and toe
injury in hopes of making the NCAA Division III Championship, managed to place
eighth in the Shot Put with a throw of 49-3 1/2.

On the track, Brian Anderson wanted to try the double of the Mile Run and 800.
The trials and finals of both are setup the same as they are at the NCAA
Division III Championships in two weeks. This would give Anderson a feel for
what that would be like if he decided to pursue both races. Unfortunately he
developed a cold after the entries were in, committing him to the double. In
Friday's trials, Anderson showed no signs of the illness as he ran just hard
enough in both the mile (4:14.41) and 800 (1:53.73) to qualify for the finals
on Saturday. In the mile, Anderson looked good through 800 meters then seemed
to totally give up as he faded to last, which is where he finished. It appears
he let his physical problems affect his mental preparation in a negative way.
Anderson got his act together in the 800 as he ran a good race even though the
leaders went out in a furious pace. Anderson stayed in the back even with
splits of 54 and 1:22. The top four finishers were all under 1:50 and Anderson
finished in eighth with a 1:53.19.

Ben Schmeckpeper also scored a point, placing eighth in the 5000 with a new
personal best of 14:39.81. Schmeckpeper stayed with the main pack through mile
splits of 4:40 and 9:20 before slowing slightly in the third mile, coming
through in 14:06. Even as tired as he was, he managed to close with a 33 final
200 to give himself a 12 second PR. Schmeckpeper's performance ranks him 13th
among Division III runners nationally, which is not likely good enough to get
him to nationals but did move him to third on the MIT top ten list for that
event.

Not placing, but running personal bests in the 200 were Zach Traina and David
Blau. Traina ran 22.38, one position out of making the finals and Blau ran
22.78, moving him into fourth on the all-time MIT indoor list.

Next week, Orji and Khan will throw at the IC4A championship being held at BU
on Saturday and Sunday. Anderson, who has qualified in the 800, 1000 and 1500
may run one of those or may take the weekend off to rest up for nationals.
Schmeckpeper, who has also qualified for this prestigious meet, may try to
improve his chances for making nationals by running the 5000. Nate Ball and
Josh Chartier will try to make a national mark in the Pole Vault up at Bowdoin
College in the ECAC Division III Championship.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT Loses For First Time Since 2001 - to Williams**

January 24, 2004

The lack of depth, and holes in events caused by a few athletes who elected
not to participate this season for varioius reasons, finally caught up with
the Engineers from MIT. Host Williams College handed MIT its first defeat
since the Ephs themselves narrowly defeated them in 2001. With the traditional
eight place scoring system (9-7-6-5-4-3-2-1) Williams finished with 225.5 to
MIT's 176, RPI's 155 and Westfield State's 33.5.

The athletes from MIT were realistic enough to be prepared for the possible
loss, without allowing it to distract them from competing hard and achieving
top performances. This was evident in many areas as the championship level
athletes began, or continued to show their dominance. The best indoor throwing
double ever for an MIT athlete and possibly any New England Division III
athlete was had by sophomore Uzoma Orji. Orji blasted his second effort in the
weight throw to a distance of 59-2 1/4, tying him for 5th with John-Paul
Clarke on the MIT all-time best list and moving into the second place on the
NCAA Division III ranking list. In the shot put, Orji sent the shot on a trip
55-11 3/4 away, further increasing his MIT record and his nation leading
distance among Division III throwers.

Chris Khan gave exceptional support in the throws, particularly since his back
is still not well, cutting his practice time significantly. Khan threw a
season best 55-1 in the weight for second place and heaved the shot 46-11 for
third place in that event. If Khan's back heals in time, the possibility of
having two 60' weight throwers and 50' shot putters on the team at the same
time could bode well in the championships.

Brian Anderson remained undefeated by winning the 1500 and 800 once again.
Anderson expected stiff competition from All America runner Matt Winkler of
Williams, but Winkler was injured and unable to race. Anderson led from start
to finish in the 1500, backing off a very fast pace with 400 to go and a 50
meter lead. Nevertheless, he ran 4:00.34. In the 800, Anderson received some
unexpected help for the first 400 meters from an opposing Williams runner
before taking matters into his own hands for the second half of the race.
Anderson ran 1:56.74 on the short track.

Ben Schmeckpeper returned to his winning ways after a bad race last week at
Bates College. Schmeckpeper took the lead at the gun and pressed the pace. He
was passed at the bell, but regained the lead coming off the final turn in a
monstrous kick, finishing in 8:40.41. Numerous other personal bests were run
by the Engineers in the 3000. Eric Khatchadourian placed third with a well run
8:58.56. Kevin DiGenova continued his weekly improvement with a 9:22.43 after
a fast closing quarter. Kevin Brulois showed he is becoming accustomed to
racing around the indoor oval as he placed 7th in 9:24.66. Ian Driver also ran
a PR of 9:24.99 and would have placed eighth but was MIT's firth runner and
the rules only permitted four placers per team per event.

Many other Engineers set personal bests. Freshmen Marcus Carson and Bo Feng
both set huge personal bests in the 55HH. Carson, whose best had been 8.92,
ran a 8.58 in the trials and 8.59 in the finals to place 5th. Feng improved to
8.69 to place 7th. Carson also ran 6.90 in the 55 dash trials for his best
this season.

Perhaps the most significant personal bests were had by Nestor Hernandez. In
the long jump, Hernandez improved is indoor best by over a foot with two 22'
efforts, the best being 22-0 3/4 for second place. Hernandez was not done. In
the pole vault he cleared 13-7 1/4 for another 2nd place. Josh Chartier
claimed fifth place and an indoor best in the vault with a clear at 13-1 1/2.

Thad Wozniak had a good day at the track so to speak. He started with a best
in the high jump at 5-5 3/4, added a third place personal best in the 400 at
53.11 on the small track and added a seventh place in the 200 at 24.28.
Wozniak also long jumped and added a key lead off leg to the victorious 4x400
relay.

Overall, the team showed a much improved competitive effort this week. Team
support was up a little but still not at the level necessary to bring out the
best performances in each other. As the season approaches the half-way point
it is obvious the this MIT team has more potential than they have displayed.
The question is if they will put it together in time for the championships.

Next week, MIT completes their regular season scoring meets by taking their
4-1 record to Bowdoin College to go up against rivals Bowdoin and Tufts
University.

RETURN TO INDOOR


